how're you doing?
your life's been like that or your life's been spent watching them? [they both kind of smile.] i have missed you.
i need your help. [she hands him the films; he limps over to the clinic desk to take a look.]
my husband.
did you think i wasn't going to get married?
there is no kidney stone no indigestion. three hospitals five doctors not one of them found anything.
right you suddenly trust doctors love puppies and long walks in the rain.
i was around you long enough to know when something's not right. mark's had personality changes he's acting strange disconnected
no affair no nothing! he's sick! i know you're not too busy; you avoid work like the plague. unless it actually is the plague. i'm asking you a favor.
honey i love your leg as much as you do.
god you're an idiot.
i'm not being glib. and i'm not being cute i don't want you to kill yourself.
oh i feel completely reassured.
the doctors say they can't.
they screwed up it doesn't mean they're wrong this time.
morphine will kill you.
you're in pain you're not thinking right.
okay i'll talk to them. [she leaves.]
oh my god how much longer is the pain going to last?
or?
he's not big on middle ground.
how bad is the pain right now?
it's not getting any better. if you were right the pain would be subsiding. you'd be getting better.
no it's not. we've got to let him cut the leg off.
would you give up your leg to save my life?
then why do you think your life is worth less than mine? if this were any other patient what would you tell them to do?
wha <U+0096> not a chance! you'd browbeat them until they made the choice you knew was right. you'd shove it in their face that it's just a damn leg! you don't think you deserve to live? you don't think you deserve to be happy? not let them cut off your leg? [they're both near tears.]
the pain alone is going to kill you.
no. he's asked to be put in a chemically induced coma so he can sleep through the worst part of the pain.
what happens after he's in the coma?
i meant i'm his health-care proxy i get to make medical decisions for him if he's not able to.
i know what he wants but if he's out it's my call right? [cuddy nods.]
hey.
i love you too. i'm sorry.
the middle ground you were talking about?
give me the forms you need signed.
he won't see it that way.
no no he'll be here. i'm sure he's just running a little late.
he's scared of you.
he wasn't scared before.
sudden mood swings infantile regression abdominal pain he's passed out twice yeah! i think it might be a medical problem.
please. [she puts her hand on his.] he'll be here.
because i didn't tell him you'd be here. [she gives him a ha! kind of look. house fixes the necklace stacy's wearing <U+0096> a silver crucifix.]
yes he does. [and the husband walks up.]
hey <U+0096> [about to make introductions but --]
mark. [mark extends a hand.]
it's okay.
gregg <U+0096>
you said you'd check him out!
wow this pissing contest is really turning me on. he needs to go to the hospital.
mark? [house gets up and guides mark's head to the table as he passes out.]
you dosed him!
what's the next move?
just one.
leslie vs. leslie seems to be right in point but i'm sure they're going to try to distinguish it by <U+0096> [she pauses as something is said over the overhead speaker] <U+0096> sorry they'll try to distinguish it by relying on the minority opinion. [a paper coffee cup is thrust under her nose held by one dr. house.]
i like sugar now. [house sits next to stacy. they both look bored and somewhat anxious. house keeps tapping his cane on the floor.] some people would be annoyed by that. [house taps on the floor a few more times.]
this is gonna be good.
that's why i'm here. i'm not moving until everybody sees me.
because if i am his paranoia isn't paranoia it's a justified response? therefore not a legitimate symptom?
on the other hand if it was really just a medical question you would have sent one of your people. why just push my buttons when you can push theirs too? hey dr. mandingo ask the wife if she's been messing around.' you were asking because if i am unfaithful i might sleep with you. the answer's no i don't sleep around'. make sure you note that in his file. [foreman enters the scene.]
making lunch? i assume that's for mark.
gregg hates fishing. he's got a theory.
no. there's been no memory loss. i mean he forgets where he left his keys but who doesn't?
of? whacked-outness? his sister voted for nader twice. that's about it. [cameron smiles then takes off her glasses.]
you're interested in him.
our first date didn't either. i was never going to see him again. week later i moved in. 5 years. what would you like to know?
pretty much the same. [the machine beeps and cameron puts on her glasses to read the test results of doom! except]
yeah that's what i figured.
he's sick paranoid and you keep hammering him about me?
elevate the words all you want you were just screwing with him. low even by your standards.
and then you run away like a 12-year-old. go hide on the roof like you always do.
it never occurred to me that you couldn't figure out what's wrong. [stacy starts to cry and house walks over to hug her.]
so what do we do?
for what?
what happened? what's wrong?
it's okay. they're gonna take care of you.
what's happening?
what?
he just wants to talk to me.
i'll be just outside the door.
no that's not gonna happen.
honey i'm not going anywhere. i'm not going to talk to him.
you couldn't just walk into the room?
shockingly mark has friends and i have some new ones.
i haven't.
i've been busy! i haven't kept track of who knows what.
he. and he sent me the bear.
what's your point? that i'm still in love with you? i should abandon my dying husband and we should head for rio?
gregg i appreciate what you're doing for us but maybe wilson's right. maybe you should just stay away from me. [she walks off.]
i'll be just outside honey.
you know nothing about mark.
we never went to paris.
no i had to work. we spent the night in new york then went back to short hills. what is it?
about a month ago. the same time he started getting sick what does that mean?
which trigger do you think set off mark's?
so if he has this and you trigger the attack the attack makes him worse. right?
okay i need a minute with my husband. [the team leaves. mark is shown talking through the glass then stacy gets up and leaves.] he doesn't want the trigger. he wants to wait see if we can come up with another explanation. if it is the aip how much time does he have?
i want you to test him.
give him the cocktail set off an attack.
why not?
i'm not going to sue you. i'm not going to report you.
he's paralyzed! either you cure him or he won't be writing any letters.
why not?
you want him to die.
is that what this is? payback for your leg? how many times have we been over this; i saved your life.
you're going to kill my husband to teach me a lesson?
now we're in your territory.
because it's crap! because you browbeat patients intimidate them lie to them. if you think you're right you don't give a damn what they think. i did what you do all the time the only difference is i did it to you.
yeah he will.
he's not getting worse?
and that's consistent with aip right? until he has another attack his condition's stable?
mark you've got to <U+0096>
you don't know gregg.
mark this is what he thinks is wrong with you.
his medical judgment.
i would.
[near tears] please if you're right this may be his only shot.
when does it happen?
what's happening?
is that an attack? [cameron runs over with the ativan but house swipes it away with his cane.]
give him something!
hey.
i know. [house is watching behind the blinds. cameron is watching house.]
you fixed him.
thank you. you were right.
no about me. i'm not over you. you were you were the one you always will be. but i can't be with you.
what's so great about you you always think you're right. what's so frustrating about you is you are right so much of the time. you are brilliant funny surprising sexy but with you i was lonely and with mark there's room for me.
