welcome back!
you look...
uhh... you could take a whole 2 minutes to ease into being back.
we heard they never found the guy. there's no new leads?
the leg looks fine. you totally pain free?
i asked cuddy to replace the carpet.
[enthusiastically.] i--
you don't think that's from the pool he drank?
sorry need you.
we were doing the emg but we never got past the insertion of the conduction pin. did she just say thank you?
nothing went wrong.
you're not going to tell me why she thanked you?
you did something for which she is grateful and you're... embarrassed?
i'm not telling you what went wrong - or right until you tell me why she said thank you. [she stands with hands on hips.]
how would smoking cause--
house!
sorry need you again.
it's a good thing we didn't. tightness in her chest she can't breathe it could be pleural effusion.
we should give her a local.
problem's in her heart.
echo was clean no structural abnormalities.
or vasculitis would also explain the effusion.
she moved therefore she could move. she wasn't paralyzed.
her platelets are normal.
what a touching moment. that's why we become doctors. for those rare moments when our hearts are warm--
are you serious or are you just trying to change the subject?
no i... it's just... you're just coming off the surgery and you're not yourself yet and i work for you and even though last year's... [frustrated sigh as house starts smiling smugly.] you're smiling! i'm saying no and you're smiling!
you are not healthy. [house continues smiling.] cuddy wants to see you.
he had brain cancer; they removed it 8 years ago. his condition's been the same ever since.
you want us to dissect 8 years of medical history with grunting in the differential?
i get hay fever i put drops in my eyes i don't go to a neurologist.
you like wasting your time?
to do what? reconsider solved cases because you don't want to deal with the real world? he's pushing when there's nothing.
yeah am i such a bitch for wanting that?
he's teaching you to be a masochist. [foreman smiles.]
perfect you managed to pick the one symptom he never had. abdominal pain.
grunting isn't pathognomonic for abdominal pain.
richard's symptoms are culled from 8 years of medical history. they're not patterned. these are random individual events over time.
which means barring anything else meaning you he can go home tomorrow.
his throat collapsed because of what we predicted.
stop it. [she stands up and stands in his way so he can't skateboard past her.] you're enjoying this.
it's interesting only if you're right; if you're wrong we're torturing this guy to amuse you.
house.
because that wouldn't be interesting. you can get permission this time.
no!
mrs. mcneil the test to do this is very risky. he could die.
you're lucky he didn't die.
we told you he'd hemorrhage.
you've got to drop this.
house every speck is not a suspect its years of surgeons digging around in his head. let him go.
no. [house turns around to look at her.] he's been sick and suffering for 8 years i'm not going to help you make it worse; i'm not going to help you make it interesting.
rectal bleeding plus alien abduction fantasy is most likely sexual abuse. penetration causes the bleed trauma causes the fantasy.
so we have contradicting bleeding time tests. if we run labs to check his clotting factors we can confirm which one's right.
you okay?
which is impossible.
i have time for one more.
she's busy i'll take it. [cameron enters the exam room and sees richard the patient from last week.] oh my god! you're uh you're okay!
i was one of your doctors. you were in a vegetative state when you left here last week.
this is amazing!
how would i know?
with rehab you'll do great. what hospital did you go to? how would i <U+0096>
oh.
viagra. you're here for viagra?
it's completely unethical!
he was right!
why does he need that? because other people have that? why does he need to be like other people?
well you did it. he's dismissing symptoms looking for easy solutions he's in pain
why? you know this is affecting him don't you?
it'll make him less depressed.
but you don't know!
maybe he cheated.
i meant he's clotting right now and he's in hypertensive crisis. maybe the two are related. what if he was hypertensive the other two times that he clotted?
sounds like a cheat to me.
valves are intact.
we don't have a laser pointer.
the genes from clancy's myocytes don't match the genes from the rest of his body.
nitrous acid or ethidium bromide exposure.
is your leg hurting?
you're leaning.
you're evading.
where do we cut? chances are it's not just in his heart.
what if we find the heart cells with the bad dna and we tag them?
it's the same way we search for cancer. the bad dna creates a unique protein on the surface of the affected cells. we create an antibody that recognizes only that protein and we flush it throughout his system and the similar cells light up like light bulbs.
you have to tell him.
he's lying.
i'm going to tell him.
then come up with a cunning plan and fast. [she stalks off.]
he's fine. there <U+0096> clump of affected cells in the bone marrow of the femur. explains the intermittent bleeding disorder.
i'm telling you he's fine. we missed some affected areas in his heart explains the continuing hypertensive issues.
i was wrong.
there's the reason for him needing glasses apparently it's a symptom. means the condition predates <U+0096>
house didn't blow the last case. cuddy cured the guy using house's idea. cuddy and wilson are trying to teach him some humility. scan is complete. 3 hot spots but nothing in his brain. house's original theory was right <U+0096> it is not neurological.
obviously we missed some foreign tissue. there's something still in him.
no cells are lighting up. his brain is clean. it is not neurological.
his scan was clean twice! it's not there! [house sits making them pause.]
where are we going?
what do you mean?
i'm not getting the metaphor.
but he doesn't have a twin.
you have your cane.
we're talking about you.
we're just concerned.
wait - there's actually another doctor you admire?
let's get you started. [powell can't quite get out of the wheelchair.] i'll turn your oxygen up.
everyone still uses it.
i'm sorry.
you're doing great just a little faster okay?
he can't breathe there's too much fluid in his lungs.
he can't run he can hardly walk.
exercising with a lung full of your own bodily fluids tends to hurt.
he's drowning!
we need to get rid of the fluid in your lungs so you'll be able to do the test.
exactly.
he's too old and weak.
just try.
is that epi? that's not the protocol.
house you're gonna kill him.
the test is over it's okay we're gonna stabilize you.
you're not gonna die.
we'll find a treatment.
he says no more tests. he wants to die and he wants us to help him do it.
he's thought this through; it's not an impulsive decision.
i couldn't do it either.
respect it doesn't necessarily mean we honor it.
so it's better we allow him to slowly suffocate in his own plasma?
coming up with a new treatment isn't gonna do us any good unless we convince him it's worth trying.
what happened?
ezra what are you doing?
house! [foreman shakes his head.]
cuddy's not gonna let you
jello shots and wild sex what else? [house looks shocked then narrows his eyes suspiciously at cameron.]
lab was clean enough to do surgery in because well they *do*. there was no sign of viruses or fleas on any of the rats.
who's that?
dictation tapes. he records everything.
because he's a diligent researcher?
a lot of people dictate their notes.
i'll go get an mri of his head.
doesn't mean we're gonna stop looking.
you want us to fail?
head is clean. you were wrong his faculties are intact.
it's 4 o'clock; we have nothing to tell him.
you can't do that.
i can't be a part of this. [she leaves the room as well.]
and a reasonable person would obviously consent to being put in a coma against their will just to satisfy your curiosity.
all he wanted was some dignity.
i wanted to get his brain-stem and his c-spine make sure his diaphragm wasn't paralyzed.
i can't do this. [she leaves.]
why?
why'd you have me look up that article?
he injected newborn babies with radioactive agents just to see if they had urethral reflux.
he didn't even tell their parents he was doing an experiment.
his peers at tuskegee and willowbrook?!
so you're okay with what he did.
because if i think less of him i'll help you more? you're wrong. the fact that a patient did bad things doesn't change anything. he still deserves to have some control over his own body.
some control. we can withhold treatment without killing him.
and i wanna get a foot massage from johnny damon.
and it could be a hundred other things that aren't treatable. you have no idea.
i didn't say that i -
i'm not gonna lie to him.
house wants to biopsy your skin; he sent me to get it.
i had nothing to do with putting you in a coma or any of the subsequent tests.
i read some of your articles.
1967 massachusetts medical journal. you radiated babies. just like that. no forms no questions nothing. who knows how many cancers you caused.
you're not sorry.
informed consent is holding back our diagnosis.
it's not on the list.
it wasn't on the stress test.
that means it should be treatable.
since when do we start believing parents? or anyone? where are we going?
where are we going?
because he screamed?
[with a bottle of pills.] big shocker dad's depressed.
not much of a life for them.
nobody chooses this.
yes if only you were handicapped all the good times you could have had with dad. [he looks at her like dude.']
what'd she do to your office?
there were some pesticides and some alcohol but the tox screen was negative.
carpets.
why are we in here? this is some sort of power play?
or do you really have a problem with the carpeting? change sets you off--
why now? why a power play now?
no problem.
it's not a power play. [house stops writing.] doing a differential in the clinic makes sense - piss cuddy off. same thing with wilson's office - works indirectly. but now we're in office space because you don't want to be in your own office which means this has nothing to do with cuddy you really are obsessed with your carpets. which means--
is it so wrong for them to want to have a normal child? it's normal to want to be normal.
so it's wrong to feel sorry for this little boy?
then what are they?
cancer cells break into the lymphatic system all the time.
cancer cells are damaged lets them go into blood vessels go wherever they want.
liver cells are fine he was immunized for hep a and b and do you really think this kid is having unprotected sex or sharing needles?
our 10-yr-old boy does not having a drinking problem or cirrhosis.
look up cirrhosis in the dictionary it means scarring.
[to the parents.] i'm sorry you can't come in here.
he's stable for the moment first degree atrioventricular block.
you just said it was about the chalk.
level of lead in the blood was normal. his tox screen was clean.
meeting here will do nothing to upset cuddy.
i would have thought you'd try to accomplish two goals at once.
7.35am.
7.40 - 7.50 he goes to the toilet washes his face what does this matter?
where are you going?
house come on the chapel?
ms.
can you stop doing that? just say not ms.
and all the imaging just missed it?
all change is bad? it's not true you know.
20-yr-old married african-american female couldn't breathe. anaphylaxis-like throat-swelling.
you think pregnancy would explain the--
not allergies negative on the skin test - 4 days of antihistamines and steroids.
what?
uhh... new nurse in peds. wendy something. swelling just started to go down.
couple times. i tried following her home but she gave me the slip.
swelling's--
swelling is--
anyone interesting in what happened with the swelling?
if you're wondering if wilson's dating her ask wilson.
because i'm hitting that and it's totally hot. [house chase and foreman look at her shocked for a moment] swelling took 4 days to resolve patient has unexplained intensive abdominal pains.
up an' at 'em. [she spreads the case file on the table in front of house] they did a laparotomy. liver bowel gall bladder appendix all clean.
he says they didn't touch her neck and if they did it would have been resolved by now.
he's in jail and he's completely healthy except for the broken head he got from the beating he took.
pain persisted after he got lorazepam and morphine. whose locker is that?
we're in the nurses' locker room!
if they're married and caught the same disease then it means they <U+0096>
married couple. same disease. they either got it from each other or in the same place.
damn. all over her brain stem.
environmental doesn't make sense either. if it were toxin we'd see it in their livers. none of their neighbors are sick no coworkers <U+0096>
it doesn't explain his throat swelling.
90% of sarcoidosis cases have lung scarring.
oh almost.
the husband he'd have to give consent. he can't right now.
he has a conflict of interest. it's not his brain we're cutting open but he's getting all the benefit. he'd do it just to save himself.
she needs a guardian ad litem. i can't let you do this.
no which made us nervous.
no!
it's naloxone.
it's leading to the torture of the husband on the off chance he'll allow a procedure on another person!
i'll tell cuddy to put a nurse by his room. [foreman looks at the meds house gave to him.]
he knew we'd stop him. he stuck both of them in his pocket.
worse. she's losing response to stimuli he's vomiting blood and his lactic acid's 45.
small cell vasculitis?
what about him?
allergies doesn't fit at all now.
what difference does it <U+0096>
it's not sarcoid. we would have seen granulomas in <U+0096>
angioedema?
any change?
i almost hope she stays in a coma.
i'd like to avoid shattering both of their lives.
any time between 8 and 10. [she picks up the patient's file.] did you say 600?
improperly prepared puffer fish can have toxins that could cause a coma and might not show up on the tox screen. where do you think he is?
what if he was in a motorcycle accident?
did you ever see how he drives?
we have a case.
from who? he was brought in alone.
have you seen any changes in his personality? any trouble with memory or balance?
nothing just reminds me of someone i know; who is unfriendly. does george have a job?
wow!
do you know if he ever uses any unpasteurized cheese or wild game?
he have any friends?
i see.
who's that?
that you and george have the same taste in home furnishings and women.
pianos and prostitutes. we should do an lp look for neurosyphilis.
how do you know?
his head's the only part that we have to get in the machine. we can just get him on the table.
the weight limit's obviously just an estimation. it's not like it can hold 450 pounds fine and then collapse under 451.
i don't care; he still deserves the same standard of care as anyone else.
you guys going to help or not?
440.
it's 'cause he's lying down. [foreman lifts an eyebrow.] you guys ready? 1 2 3.
haven't seen any edema either.
an lp even if it's not an std a fever points toward some sort of infection.
we could use fluoroscopy to guide us.
george it's alright you're in a hospital.
gonna get you out!
we still have no idea why he was in a coma to begin with.
an infection made worse by the steroids we gave him for pickwick's does.
he's telling the truth. [everyone looks up at cameron.]
repairmen cost less than lawyers. morbid obesity is a legally defined disability [chase rolls his eyes.] which means if we denied access to the mri he could have sued us for discrimination as well as malpractice.
yeah.
shut up.
it's not hormones.
or the fever is related and so are the prostitutes. we should do a full std panel and check his genitals for chancres.
you're not fine you were in a coma for 2 days there's something wrong with you.
we're sorry about that it was the only way to rule out a stroke or brain hemorrhage.
blood and urine were negative for chlamydia herpes and syphilis.
he insisted chance of dying from hospital acquired infection is greater than him dying from whatever caused his coma.
he's not backing down. he says if we don't discharge him he'll leave ama (against medical advice).
why you think he's healthy?
you don't have delayed effects to oxygen. and pickwick's doesn't explain the fever.
yesterday you insisted on keeping him here because of the fever we have no idea what's wrong with the guy. for all we know he could be dead in 12 hours.
he's obviously just rationalizing and so are you! you would never give up this easy if you weren't so busy dealing with your own personal problems.
is there someone who can check on you?
you know there's an overeaters anonymous meeting here at the hospital.
i would be worried about you just like i am now.
why doesn't that philosophy apply to medical mistakes and hospital acquired infections as well?
wait; let us take you all the way outside.
doesn't matter it's hospital rules.
george come on; let us just take you to the taxi.
george--
george are you alright? george you alright? george?
dunno. haven't seen him since you told him to sit on his ass yesterday.
whatever nf-2 doesn't explain fever. i think we should focus on the coma and the fever.
the coma was the most severe symptom.
no he's not.
i just mean it's not connected.
yeah i do.
because i did it. i didn't think he should be discharged so i gave him 3 grams of phenytoin. [foreman and house look shocked.] i wasn't going to just let him leave.
i tried to keep him in the wheelchair but he's tough to stop.
it can't be chagas'; he's never been outside the country.
it's the only way.
leafy vegetables can suck contaminated water through their roots right into the plant. you could have washed them in chlorine and it still wouldn't have mattered.
parasites could have been on only a few items or maybe they just didn't eat as much as you did.
[interrupting.] this one fits george. it explains your coma your fever your loss of appetite.
it's all explained and if we don't treat it while it's still in the acute stage it'll be too late. it could go on to infect your heart intestines esophagus.
george calm down!
and not surprisingly there was no sign of chagas or any other parasites in his csf.
what about george?
it could also explain his lack of concern for his health. ms can cause excessive cheerfulness.
no blood sugar and urine dipstick and hemoglobin a1c are normal.
[stopping the doors from closing.] where are you going?
george all it is is sugar water i promise.
sometimes the blood sugar levels can fluctuate make it difficult to diagnose.
you didn't come here you were brought here because you were in a coma and barely alive! we didn't do that to you. you need to let us figure out what did.
for someone who insists he enjoys life as much as you do you certainly don't seem willing to do much to prolong it.
refusing to cooperate with us does not make you suicidal it makes you an idiot. you think we want to see you blind or in a coma?
what did your lawyer say? [house looks surprised.] i looked up butt plug in a legal dictionary what'd he say?
don't know says we think only think it's diabetes because of his weight won't let us test him.
george just drink it!
how are we going to get him to do all that when we can't even get him to drink a bottle of sugar water?
george? [he looks up but also looks confused since he can't see who it is.] it's me. your tests were positive. you have a small cell lung carcinoma; caused a paraneoplastic neurologic syndrome which in turn caused your blindness and coma. the cancer's metastasized to your lymph nodes. it's inoperable but there are radiation treatments available. [george is starting to take shaky breaths as the news is delivered.] they might give you a few more months.
you were right.
he said c'est la vie. [she walks into the room and starts playing with the bouo (ball of unknown origins - the oversized tennis ball).]
what about you? what are you going to do about your problem?
i guess that's good.
no it's good. you get to keep going like you always have.
you think i can only care about a patient if i know someone else who's been through the same thing?
you lie for everybody and only care about a few.
i like damaged people remember? explains everything i do.
does it matter?
sorry to disappoint you sometimes the answers just aren't that simple. [she leaves.]
any history of epilepsy in your family?
well what did you put down as the person the hospital should contact in an emergency?
there's gotta be someone a friend...
could be infection.
says he had a ct.
he didn't report any injuries.
mri and lp are both inconclusive. infection's still possible. tumor's less likely than...
visitors?
there's gotta be someone you're close to.
i think his liver's failing.
he's unconscious and heading for a coma. he's at a four on the rlas scale.
we take him off those meds what do we put him on?
trauma's out of the picture. could still be an infection.
you're not waking kyle. you're waking his father.
i'm uncomfortable saying a number.
six.
no. what is it you want me to say? that he takes too many pills and is a danger to the hospital. or he takes too few because he's selling them on the side. either way it's ridiculous.
you're wrong.
i was paged.
how many pills does house take? did i ever write him a prescription? that sort of stuff. i told him six.
i was just hoping you guys would stay consistent.
you're next.
tritter says no.
took wilson's assistant for coffee.
something tritter said. she told me the police think that house stole wilson's prescription pad and forged his name.
do you?
he's not gonna steal his best friend's pad jeopardize his career.
[checking the patient.] kyle's under three on the rlas scale. he's only showing localized response.
bp's starting to drop.
what're you trying to do? make him bleed faster?
heart beat's irregular and accelerating!
it's at two hundred!
allergic reaction to diazepam?!
fatigue night sweats weight loss preceded the heart attack. eighteen-year-old kid. suddenly an orphan _and_ a single father of two.
athlete's foot covers that. waiters work twelve hours a day in old sneakers.
[protesting] i'm not ignoring the symptom. i'm explaining a symptom.
you can't know what's wrong after a thirty second perusal of his file.
what's that?
if it was a tumour intra-cranial pressure could cause his brain to herniate [mocking] before lunch.
which is why i'm ditching it.
[smug] not telling.
we're all playing his game. might as well enjoy it.
i'm injecting your [?] to see if your heart attack was caused by a spasm in the vessels surrounding your
let me know if anything feels...
unusual.
[ignoring house to jack] we're just trying to eliminate as many possibilities as we can. [glares at house]
[encouragingly] everything's under control. tests are gonna identify which arteries are affected so we can repair them.
you wanna get back home right? i mean you're probably already falling behind with the housework bills.
[wide-eyed smiling] how many sick days you think you'll get before they replace you?
right! you're irreplaceable. who else would they find qualified to dance with a rodent?
[voice rising] how can you even support your family? what happens when those kids grow out of their clothes when they get sick?
[getting in jack's face] they'll take those kids away from you jack. maybe i should bring them in here right now so that you can kiss them... goodbye!
[taken aback] no. chase - blood test for bacteria. foreman - mri too stubborn to check the lungs. cameron - nice try no spasm.
you okay?
the restaurant's prob'ly teeming with e. coli eikenella and strep.
kids don't wash their hands between a potty and the party and...
you want me to write?
[balking] i... haven't met these people.
i know. [off wilson's look] i know! i'm not saying i don't trust you.
these are gonna be my prescriptions.
my name! that tritter will read on the scrip. he wants to make you miserable you don't think he's gonna ask questions?
[sitting upright] no i'm a doctor.
i'm assisting dr. wilson today.
[uh-oh] no i'm sure...
[deer in the headlights] no... it's just...
nice cane.
you sure? [looks in the microscope again]
he's also positive for eikenella.
[defensively] not a chance.
tox screen was clean.
hold him still!
we'll fix it. we need to get a sample.
i'm not writing you a scrip for vicodin.
[tying up her hair] cut 'em in half. then you'll have four.
[arms on hips] you know you have a problem.
you're taking too much...
[indignant] of course i am.
[closing her locker] here. [tosses the pills to house] this'll tide you over. takes the edge off my pms. do wonders for you.
[looking at her monitor] nothing in the mid-brain.
i don't see anything.
[looking at her monitor] oh god. axial view there's another one. bring up the next slice.
the obvious one. brain cancer destroyed his immune system left him wide open for these infections.
it can't be an infection. he got ivig broad-spectrum antibiotics...
it can't be genetic. he would've been getting infections since he was an infant.
i'll go. [turns to leave]
[sighs] it could mean chronic granulomatous disease.
what infections?
okay! i appreciate the fullness of your answers but i just wanted to know if she'd had any history of abdominal problems.
the admitting doctor noted no family history of...
i doubt it's crohn's. she has none of the other symptoms...
i'm wondering if we can focus on answering the questions mrs. hartman?
[under her breath] i suspected.
parents say she's not on any meds.
[taking a closer look] shadow looks normal to me.
we got a referral from...
[huh?] gallstones?
your theory is an invisible gallstone?
it's his dad's fault.
but you did everything he wanted you to and in return you got everything you wanted.
his strategy worked. dad got him a cushy job paid for his cushy life.
[covering her cell's mouthpiece to house] must be allergic to something we used in the surgery.
[into phone] cameron. c-a-m-e-r-o-n.
which are non-conclusive.
allergic reaction is a hundred times more likely with or without a history. fever and anaemia could've been symptoms of pancreatitis. [into phone] hello?... thank you for your help.
they froze my accounts.
it's not her fault.
neuroaxonal dystrophy. she's the right age.
then what?
gonna break out the rubber hoses the bright lights? i'm not gonna testify just because i have to borrow lunch money.
i'm not in love with house.
that can't just be loyalty and respect?
i'm a girl. so i must be in love with him.
[angrily] don't go there!
everytime we touch this kid something goes wrong.
you really have to flash your private stash in front of me?
she got a major dose of heparin to thin her blood for the procedure. could have induced thrombocytopenia.
are you saying she never had reye's? we just put that girl through excruciating pain.
tritter released our bank accounts.
pain not paralysis. rocky mountain spotted fever on the other hand rash fever anaemia paralysis and i didn't say anything to tritter.
you were with him.
that's impervious to drugs.
arm and leg? we can't cut a six-year-old kid in half without a confirmed diagnosis.
we can at least observe her for few hours confirm the rash is spreading.
'cause he thought our theories were dumb not because our theories were sending him to jail.
we never ruled out allergy.
we cut open her belly she got a rash on her belly. we did a scratch test on her back she had a rash on her back. i know house ruled out mojo but it can't be a coincidence...
what are you going to do?
cartilage hair hypoplasia - they have compromised immune systems.
a ppd involves planting a fragment of tb under the skin to see if the immune system recognises it because of her compromised immune system our patient could have tb but not recognise it.
gallium is a radioactive isotope travels through your veins allowing us to see any bright spots that might indicate infection.
[turning around] house!
so abigail you wanna hop up on the table for me?
oh i'm sorry. erm let me give you a boost [she's about to help lift abigail]
i'm just trying to be helpful. [she does slide over a stool and abigail climbs on to the table]
gallium scan shows no bright spots of any kind means it's not tb or any other infection.
that type could have overexposed the image a bit but it's nothing. her liver looks fine.
her lung collapsed there is no liver problem.
this is wrong.
because it's effective doesn't make it right.
and the ends justify the means?
cirrhosis could explain--
she's 15 it's not liver cancer. [she is particularly vehement when she says this]
cirrhosis fits better; the question is what caused it.
hepatoma is a weak diagnosis.
what else would it be about?
and help yourself at the same time.
was it an easy choice?
then why wasn't it easy?
it's complicated? when you decided to talk to tritter your life got a million times better. how do you separate that out? how do you pretend your windfall isn't relevant to this decision?
you pretending your motives are pure is why i have a problem.
ear infections are fairly typical amongst chh dwarfs.
again intestinal problems are common.
what if we sacrifice this girl and house still goes to jail?
any ideas that aren't cancer?
autoimmune fits better we should treat her with prednisone for lupus.
not if she dies before we get the results.
house it's me. i err...
oh god. i don't have--
[notices house's arm through the gap in the door where he's poked his head out to talk to her] what happened to your arm?
wilson was wrong about lymphoma kid's not losing any weight no night sweats.
no. she doesn't trust me not to give you pills.
house these cuts are straight in a row. you did this on purpose.
no.
no constitutional symptoms means--
you really think she's going to fold?
yeah. house take the deal. you can survive without vicodin. after you were shot you stayed clean for months.
then you can rip off the bandage. [she proceeds to bandage the cut up]
got a history of ear infections.
nerd gets drunk thrashes the bar. one of the autoimmunes triggered by a minor infection.
house stop this. please.
still's disease. it's chronic but manageable.
are you asking because you care or because you're wondering whether to trust his opinion?
he's detoxing in agony he started cutting himself. [cuddy looks very sad] but he's still house.
couldn't be too severe her cardiac alarm didn't go off.
spinal fluid was negative for lymphoma. what other--
none of her blood tests suggest leukaemia. cancer doesn't explain the collapsed lung.
it's a long-shot autoimmune is way more likely.
and she got better for a while we stopped the treatment too soon!
er docs don't think so. your temperature is going up and down like a roller coaster. how old are these skin grafts?
we're gonna run some tests and we'll get a consult with dr house.
[thinks about it] speaking engagement.
he suffered 3rd degree burns over 54% of his body a year ago and arrived in the er last night disorientated and shivering. twelve hours his temperature was bouncing between 96 and 102.
except that he wasn't the patient or the doctor he was the guy who stole from the patient and the doctor. [to house] this was the 3rd time he's been disorientated in the last 2 weeks.
he's not in a burning building anymore and he's still shivering.
he tested negative for hep c tb hiv lyme and his tox screen's clean.
i'm not asking you to dance i'm asking you to do your job.
no chest pain smoke inhalation already explains the arrhythmia.
mrsa is a bacteria that often infects hospital patients the burns on your chest and arm exposed raw flesh that made you a wide open target.
depends on what strain it is we will know more once we get the results back from these cultures.
mrsa wouldn't change his ocular palette.
[interrupts house] he's not taking viagra.
it's not mrsa he's not being isolated anymore.
what's wrong?
[to derek] hold on we're going to get you something to stop it.
you gotta calm down.
and his ekg showed the expected tachycardia from the exertion of the attack ...[house continues to play with his pill cameron gets sarcastic] and i'm fine by the way thanks for asking.
[follows] that's it no challenging our theory no tearing us down.
ct was normal no frontal lobe tumour lp was negative for meningitis we're back to square one.
we would've seen respiratory problems. [getting impatient with the ddx] we're throwing darts; we need to go to house.
he can make the time derek's still his patient.
we're treating a man who runs into burning buildings for perfect strangers. he didn't ask for what's happening to him. house did everything to himself he's been cut more than enough slack.
it's been clean every time.
not everybody's house people can handle pain without any medication.
when?
get her outta here!
o2 stats are 85 he's hypoxic were going to have to intubate.
he's stable.
heart attacks can't cause you to reach out and choke someone.
to see house we have a 28 year old with clean arteries no valvular abnormalities having multiple heart attacks. i'm not going to wait for chase to give us another breakthrough.
we don't have an answer yet.
the heart shows no sign of inflammation or...
first one happened in an apartment building fire.
the 2nd and 3rd ones happened here there's no fire no water no smoke.
his partner amy was at all three attacks but...
amy? could you come with me please?
we're not quite sure yet. [to amy] could you come with me?
house was right.
you may be carrying an agent that triggered them. it could be anything. mould spores poisonous plant residues something you picked up at a fire site. until we identify the agent we can't let you near derek.
you can't blame yourself for this.
he was trapped in a fire.
we tested amy for about a dozen different agents but they all came back negative.
derek are you in love with her?
amy told me how you got those skin grafts and the way you're always watching out for her and i see the way you look at her [derek looks away and sighs] have you told her how you feel?
women with daughters can still fall in love.
broken heart syndrome he's in love and it's killing him.
thanks to his menopause and oestrogen level he basically is an old woman bhs is an acute physical response to an emotional experience stress triggers a flood of catecholamines.
but if you're too worried about losing your job to get it treated they can develop into full on heart attacks you think it's a coincidence this started when amy got engaged?
we need to put him on antidepressants.
[annoyed at chase's suggestion] that might make you happy. the only thing that will make derek happy is amy.
he has a myocardial infarction every time she walks in the room what do you think will happen to his heart when we tell him he can never see her again?
antidepressants would inhibit his autonomic nervous system speed up the attacks.
you'll still be able to perform routine functions like walking talking tying your shoes [camera moves inside where we see cameron talking to derek] the treatment targets the anterior cerebral cortex. it should only effect your experiential memories.
if this works you won't remember them or your firefighting training.
are you ok with that?
tell amy how you feel because if she loves you...
you're effectively killing who you are just to keep this secret.
i know we're going to give you a muscle relaxant so your body doesn't convulse.
what's your name?
do you know what city we're in?
would you be ok with a couple visitors?
we've given him four rounds of electroshock the charge made his voice a little higher but the ekg and bp are good.
i'm going to stay here monitor derek.
it's going to take him a while.
derek's going to need him amy; i know the timing isn't great with the wedding coming up...
yours. you and brock.
the memories were false we fried his brain for nothing.
[can hear her voice over the phone while camera still on house] the cytology on the lp doesn't suggest a tumour.
house [he stops and turns] i just heard that you apologised to wilson.
we got the meningioma. your brain should start generating real memories again.
you have people who love you they'll take care of you... you start over. [derek contemplates having to start his life all over again]
nurses said he was running in circles. doesn't mean he was dizzy.
uhh i was... gonna say what foreman...
[opening the file] he... came to the clinic.
[bit more confident] decent chance he had a chronic illness first 'specially given the rapid heart rate.
[even more confident] lingering ear infection. pressure builds up in his inner ear bursts through the
[wearily] nothing else wrong with him?
how can i help you?
[taking the note] what doctors?
[gently] do you know what this is?
[reading] patient has a six centimetre mass in the right lung. cancerous. inoperable. do you understand what this means?
he doesn't.
you've been out on the streets. no treatment...
we can make you comfortable.
why not?
so you wanna punish yourself for messing up your life?
she wants you.
she knows she wants you. you're the first person she spoke to about this.
no you're not.
you need to get her to talk about what happened.
[to foreman] pretending it didn't happen...
[to house firmly] she's gotta make this real.
[getting mad] maybe you're right! except there's no way she can pretend this didn't happen so she has no choice but to process it.
why do you have to suffer?
who would make you promise that?
that's not a promise. and even if it was he's dead and even if he's not he's not gonna care.
[astonished] how do you about my husband?
you have to die in pain because of a promise you made to your father?
did the nurse tell you about my husband?
[calling] nurse!
[to the nurse] it's under control.
why?
tell her your life has been good.
tell her anyway. she wants hope she wants to know that what happened to her wasn't the norm. things can be okay which means maybe they can be okay for her again.
you don't deserve pain. you're just an insane old man.
i'm not gonna watch you suffer.
[shouting at his obstinacy] i'll remember you!
because you're a nice man.
either you're a nice man or you're an ass. either way you did something to somebody that they're gonna remember.
[appealing] it'll be horrible. don't do that to either of us.
she's a new researcher. works with erechevsky.
she's in a wheelchair.
just means he wasn't on drugs not that he hasn't been using drugs.
this is putrid.
nothing. we're sorry. we're just here to help stevie.
yourson?
or you lied because you don't want us to talk to your parents.
so you don't have a home?
the pot wouldn't cause a bleeding problem. a pesticide on the pot could. where did you get it?
what's wrong with you?
is your leg worse?
you're going to spend a week in a wheelchair just to get a parking closer to the front door.
that could cause a massive bleed.
okay. you're going to feel a little poke.
it's okay it's just your leg. i don't have to go any further than this.
scared lovers try positions they can't handle. (foreman and stevie look at her) it's a mnemonic for the wrist bones. it's the only way i can remember them.
i haven't started.
i'm getting out.
if he moves i could shred his artery.
dye's going into his liver but it's not coming out.
it's not constricting it it's completely blocking it. his whole liver's fried.
not a chance.
dic would explain both the
smart kid.
he's still young. you never know what he'll wind up doing.
it's a granuloma.
we don't know yet.
we were treating him for wegener's when everything went wrong.
still could be a cancer with multiple
ft-28 is still experimental. it's not fda approved.
there's no way his parents are going to let us near him again.
where is this going?
because there's not reason to. he hasn't been having any symptoms in his bowels.
because he's had no symptoms?
why don't we x-ray his feet? they're fine too.
okay even if that did make sense it's kind of hard to do a colonoscopy on a kid you can't get near.
the reflection?
she could be going into a seizure.
you weren't shot because of leg pain you were shot because you're a jerk.
yeah he did.
no your eeg was normal. x-rays showed no breaks blood test showed no infections urine indicated no (hannah's head falls back on pillow. she's convulsing.) hannah? (she pulls the thermometer from hannah's mouth. turns on intercom over the bed) call a code. oh god. (to staff coming through the door) need ice packs and cooling blankets. got saline in there? (pulls sheet off hannah.)
she has a temperature of 105. (pours pitcher of water over hannah. she and nurse place cold packs.)
we've got her temperature down below boiling. could be infection.
maybe we did something to her. maybe she got sick after the tests. we should rerun them.
how long are we going to keep hannah in the dark about her mother?
side air bag should be standard.
she should know her mother's situation.
no.
that's not true.
how much more paperwork do you need? we've got pediatric records a few dozen e.r. records our own admission questionnaire.
insurance coverage.
you want to torture her?
i'm not going to hurt you.
hannah you're having a paranoid delusion.
fine. we'll take you to her or observation room.
anything? we're not looking for pain. anything at all? pressure?
you have six broken bones a fever a concussion erratic heart rhythms and a complete lack of sensation below the waist.
not yet.
the paranoia seems to have dissipated but her vitals keep getting worse. she could be dead in hours.
thyroid storm.
bennett's on call.
where did you go? she's getting worse.
(as house heads into the hall followed by fellows) we'll be risking infection. maybe make the paralysis worse.
how did you know?
past 3 a.m. on valentine's day night. i assume you had a date with wendy.
you're lucky.
someday when there's time i would like to actually have a social life.
you mean a sex life.
i had the real thing. forgive me if i don't want to settle.
what does that mean?
you think i didn't have the real thing?
and yet you're judging it.
i didn't have the real thing. how could you even know?
wow you nailed it. it was basically like a wasted weekend.
(looking into microscope) this isn't right.
means damage must be coming from the outside in.
kid's mom is finally out of surgery
hannah should see her.
they found brain swelling. they're prepping her mother for another surgery.
she's scared.
so diagnose her.
you okay? we're gonna have to take her back to surgery. hannah your bp is way up. we need to get you some rest.
you're crying.
they weren't really arguing. she was just frustrated.
whose fault it was.
maybe she's fighting because she feels guilty. she's showing her mom she can take stupid risks and still be safe. means her mom can let go.
a couple of years ago she was a model student.
a holiday that only applies to people who are already paired up. for everyone else it's wednesday.
don't get me wrong. i still think true love's out there it's just very far away. possibly in another galaxy. we may need to develop faster than light travel before we can make contact. (they walk outside) so i'm thinking we should have sex.
despite the wisdom of pop songs. there's no point in putting our lives on hold 'til love comes along. we're both healthy and busy people. we work together so it's convenient.
and of all the people i work with you're the one i'm least likely to fall in love with.
the point here is to make things simpler not more complicated. someday there'll be time to get serious about someone. meanwhile we already had sex once and didn't get weird about it. so
then you're not the man i'm looking for. (she walks off he smiles and follows.)
thirty-five-year-old savant dystonia in his left hand.
he's already on clonazepam. or seizures he has from a bus accident when he was ten.
thirty-five-year-old savant dystonia.
[simultaneously] [acting disgusted] no.
for what?
do you have any idea why house would wanna go to boston?
plane tickets this friday. i opened his mail. i heard there's an opening at harvard for division chief infectious disease.
what?
why? it was green?
[standing up] no you're not.
[victoriously displaying the key] not with a savant to obsess about.
i'll take in here. bedroom's down the hall.
[uhhh] where else would the bedroom be?
[amused] you're scared of him catching us breaking into his home but you're not scared of him catching us doing it in his bed?
[holding a big book] his high-school yearbook.
[looking at the yearbook] he's not smiling.
six-one-seven. why?
dr. wilson.
wilson! [runs upto wilson] just spoke to cuddy. she can't confirm whether house is applying for a job at boston.
if i have to look for work i have a right to know.
just wanna make sure you weren't misdiagnosed.
why not?
means the question isn't why is he having seizures it's why are his seizures getting worse?
he'll seize even more. multiple seizures can seriously damage a brain.
no.
[opening up the paper] this is a letter of recommendation. i'm applying for a job at penn.
thank you for signing it. saves me from having to fake your signature.
i thought you'd find it appealing.
for what?
if you're not here there's not much point of staying.
[caught] you kissed back.
all i need is a few drops of your blood.
[appealing] there's a nurse downstairs about to risk his job to steal the blood you drew from yourself yesterday.
what kind of time does he have?
[waking up] any description of the process for previous trials?
why? what're you...?
bleeding in the brain. blood would irritate the lining might cause the seizures to get worse.
'til what?
or you kill him.
you're just looking for a puzzle to distract you from your own situation.
damn. he's negative for protein phf. he doesn't qualify.
[really wide-eyed with joy] it's a gumma in your brain. it's very rare not to be in the liver and i'm really glad we never slept together but...
[unsure] you knew it wasn't cancer?
[non-plussed] you faked cancer?
[in disbelief] you faked cancer to get high?
why is he here instead of the va?
he's right. studies all show the same pattern of symptoms in veterans that were sent to the gulf and those who weren't.
cuddy's making him.
tv?
i don't see anything.
sometimes it's harder than you realise to distinguish between the two. you obviously exercise.
except for the supposed pain in his joints none of the other symptoms he's complaining about are currently evident.
do you really care or are you just trying to waste hospital resources to get back at cuddy for making you take the case?
are you ok?
were we... walking you to the bathroom?
that's his third rem cycle and his breathing is completely normal there's obviously nothing wrong with his sleep pattern.
or nothing at all. do you really think there's something wrong or do you just want foreman to be wrong?
well it's not his sleep pattern. if you really think it's a toxin you can do a liver biopsy in the morning. [gets up to leave.]
it doesn't take two doctors to monitor what's clearly going to be a normal polysomnogram.
you're the one that thought there was something wrong.
you want to flip for it?
oh c'mon don't be a baby. fine i'll stay. [sits back down.] you know what we could do... [gestures towards an empty room with a bed in it.]
why not? we're surrounded by empty rooms with beds in them.
so we turn them off.
we have the keys.
alright. [puts her feet on the desk and leans back in the chair.] suit yourself. [looks at the screens chase looks contemplative.]
says he hasn't performed oral sex on anyone for over a year.
could be autoimmune sjogren's decreases salivary flow creates a hospitable home for bacteria.
if he was just trying to mess with cuddy for wasting his time this would have stopped as soon as the patient started exhibiting actual symptoms.
or is he wasting our time?
he's just pushing to make sure we get the complete history obviously we're missing something or we'd have the answer. [foreman looks suspiciously at cameron.]
all right already we confess. you caught us we snuck into one of the sleep lab rooms to have sex we shouldn't have done it while we were supposed to be working and we're sorry now can we move on? [chase looks shocked foreman starts laughing.]
no you would do house and wilson before i do chase. now can we get back to work?
what did you want me to tell him? the truth?
[smiles.] don't worry. i'll make it up to you.
don't pout.
[leans in closer to chase.] do you want to stop?
you think i do?
[smiles.] i couldn't help that... why would i want to get caught?
i'm over house. all this is is uncomplicated sex don't try to make it more than that.
fine. [leans back puts her glasses back on and starts reading one of the sheets of paper on the table. chase sighs. cameron looks back at chase.] want to go grab some lunch?
lunch. why what happened?
nothing he's telling the truth.
you had a dream about a patient?
you paged us?
high doses of radiation. even if he ate depleted uranium bullets for breakfast he still would have been exposed to less radiation than we've given him in the last two days.
no. not until you give me a reason.
a rational reason. or at least admit that you don't have one.
but you are apparently afraid of discovering something that you can't rationally explain...
what the hell was that all about?
i'm over him.
it's got to be some sort of infection.
but house...
if he wanted us to start this treatment he would have told us to the last time you brought it up.
no.
the paralysis is ascending. last check it was nearly to his diaphragm.
like what? did you come up with some brilliant idea while you were warm and cosy in your bed at home?
he can't be bleeding out there's no blood in the bed.
there's no reason for blood loss.
how could you know that?
that no one in his family has ever been diagnosed with before?
he's caring. [house enters walks to picture and pulls it down.]
bp is fine. no preeclampsia.
you're going to do what? relax?
what if the kidney failure came first? kidneys could have caused the stroke not the other way around.
i'm saying it threw a clot. early symptoms of kidney failure are nausea vomiting swelling. she could have mistaken it for morning sickness.
echo's normal. the history indicates no sign of cardiac problems.
she was prescribed antibiotics.
mitral valve stenosis.
that was weird.
which is weird. [into microphone] stay still emma.
no problem. [she click microphone off.] he caught us with your hand up my shirt. he's gotta have a reaction to that. you think that's what the vacation is?
there's no way house just lets this slide. he's gotta be planning something.
you think he just stumbled into that closet? he knew we were there. and he wanted us to know that he knew.
barely. that's not big enough to throw a clot.
the balloon will force the valve back open and you'll be fine. [cuddy quietly slides open the door.]
can you tell cuddy to stop interfering?
or you screwed up the diagnosis. mitral valve thickening was so insignificant it probably wasn't the cause of the kidneys or the stroke. probably never would have been a problem.
hypoperfusion. the fetus is basically a parasite stealing nutrients minerals blood.
that's it has to be one of those five.
[looking up from microscope and turning to the others.] she's 0 for 5.
i've read the outcome of mirror syndrome is almost always unfavorable.
tacharrythmia fetal anemia placental chorioangioma <U+0096>
the fetus' heart is structurally sound. the problem's with the bladder. it's four times normal size.
the bladder's so engorged it's taking up the whole torso squeezing all the other organs. there's no room for the lungs to develop.
are you taking over the case?
house told you?
i would hate to see my personal life become such a burden to you.
well i assume you're going to have this same conversation with chase for his own good.
my social life is my social life.
she told me to end it. is that what you want?
what are you doing?
perfect except for the fact that you can't walk.
you're insane.
shunt is in the right position. the bladder's starting to decompress.
i thought you didn't care about his reaction. trying to make him jealous?
he can't fire you just because we're together.
doing just fine emma. so are you.
can you open your eyes emma? i just need to take a look. [she pulls open emma's eyelid. her cornea is yellow.]
emma's jaundiced. her liver's shutting down.
i thought you were climbing mount <U+0096> whatever. in argentina.
we won't be able to get a good look until they develop. it'll be weeks
do semantics make you feel better? pretend it's not a person?
acute fatty liver of pregnancy would have the same symptoms.
i'm not going through anyone.
and the biopsy was negative. this is definitely mirror syndrome. her baby's doing this to her.
the patient's transaminases are ten times normal. her liver's on the verge of shutting down completely.
medicine doesn't work faster just because you hope real hard.
emma's already on tocolytics. the combination could put her into pulmonary edema. you'll just kill her faster.
anybody going to stop her?
i thought you started your vacation.
transesophageal echo.
in a minute. emma asked me to bring up her camera.
when'd she take this picture of you? you look so
no. i've never seen you like this. she got you to glow. what were you doing? what'd she say to you?
no but if it does relieve her symptoms it'll narrow down our search.
bit more likely she got sick in caracas than in new jersey.
bowl's full. he wants it he can get it. [focusing on med bottle] cadmium yellow? heavy metal poisoning would explain the ataxia and the seizures.
[tossing the bottle aside entering the bedroom] is foreman right? did you agree with me because of our relationship?
you know what i mean.
i mean because we're having sex.
[playfully] then well played.
[really playful] we agreed it was a brain tumour.
what?
haven't you had anybody watch before?
nothing in her house. big waste of time.
good to know.
which is slower than she was having before we put the patch back on.
since when is breast cancer treatable by motion sickness meds?
[pointing] okay put your hand here.
[over radio from adjoining room] robin.
[over radio] hold still.
[over radio smiling] good.
[adjusting the machine] okay we're gonna get just one more.
sorry i know it hurts.
cover your left eye with this.
it's just sex.
are you saying women can't separate the physical from the emotional?
[playfully] you just want us to stop because you think it's affecting...
polyspikes over oh-one and oh-two.
fran?
she's comatose.
or her nerves are dying.
you wanna drill in her brain because of an invisible bleed the ct couldn't see? we should do an lp to confirm the presence of red blood cells.
right better to kill her in the or. chase what do you think?
damn.
we were wrong. which means foreman was right.
[brushing it off] it's not affecting our jobs.
all right no more sex at patient's homes. no more sex with cats watching. anywhere else you wanna cross off the list?
what?
she's been sick since she's been here.
why would you think...?
nice catch.
think even house would be impressed.
[suggestively] any idea how you want to celebrate?
what?
[joking] i thought you were getting a little worn out but...
[losing the smile] i know. i was just hoping you'd take the hint and pretend you never said that.
i thought we were clear.
[interrupting] yes i can. and i don't. it was... fun. that's it.
and now it's over.
bacterial infection is more likely to turn constrictive. it could be tb.
few extra blood cells means nothing. she's probably just dehydrated.
she's sick. she obviously hasn't been drinking enough...
since when does we not include you?
why? because we stayed up all night doing exactly what you told us to do?
he went home!
i would rather foreman...
anywhere moist. around a pool locker room public shower...
you haven't taken any trips gone anywhere new?
i'm sorry.
the cool part is your sister won't feel a thing.
thanks.
love them.
slit lamp revealed the eye's anterior chamber is swollen uveitis means it's not a post op effect and it's not neurological.
she didn't mention anything about...
it's a symptom of polycythemia she's fully hydrated and her blood's still thicker than pancake batter.
doubt our patient's a smoker.
he's not.
you're intentionally punishing us.
[taking the flowers.] that's so sweet. [jasper smiles.]
[to jasper.] you should take these back to where you found them.
wait. [chase watches as she walks over to jasper takes a flower out of the bunch and kisses jasper on the cheek jasper smiles broadly before looking at chase. cameron then walks off towards the exit smiling and smelling the flower as she passes chase. chase sighs then turns and follows.]
yeah right house loves it when we skip something because it's a long shot. [closes the oven and checks the stove.]
he did something sweet.
he's eight.
[sarcastic.] yeah i want you to profess your love for me. oh wait you already did that and it caused me to end our relationship. [glares at chase.]
it's a crush. it's harmless.
so i'm learning.
i'm not sniping i'm looking for a vent. her room's directly above the garage. there's all sorts of co sources down there. [crawls under the bed.] i found a vent i think there's something in it.
we had a really good thing. you broke the rules i'm angry. i'll get over it.
she's being abused.
father's overwhelmed hectic job his wife passed away last year. he could easily be taking it out on the kids.
she's socially isolated the brother's always in trouble its classic signs...
[turns to house.] what if it's sexual? we should call social services.
ok i'm going to look inside your mouth open wide. [lucy does so.] ok i'm going to look at your chest and your back next. ok? [cameron lifts lucy up and checks her back.] i know you can't talk so stop me if you get scared. [lies her back down turns her on her side and checks her chest and then her knees.] before you came here did anyone hurt you? make you bleed? [lucy shakes her head.] i need to look in your vagina now do you understand? i'm a doctor so it's ok all right? bend your knees keep your ankles together and just let your knees fall to the side ok? [cameron looks at her vagina and then looks shocked.] oh my god.
she has cuts all over her genital area like slices some are almost healed but some are new.
they weren't deep enough.
and there was no tearing there's no evidence at all.
meaning what?
for some reason her body has too much sex hormone. caused her reproductive system to get confused start operating prematurely. we need to find out the source of the hormones and cut it off.
she got her period and didn't know what it was. she was scared and confused. a friend told her to put a t-shirt in her underwear. when she started growing pubic hair she snuck daddy's razor and tried to shave it off.
in puerto rico in the 70s there was an epidemic of kids growing breasts because of estrogen in the poultry.
she's 6. she's tiny. she lives on chicken fingers and milk. dad doesn't look like the type to read labels. he's probably buying stuff packed full of hormones.
there's all sorts of environmental sources. pesticides soy products some shampoos are basically a placenta in a bottle.
can i at least...
jasper you're not supposed to be up here.
no. your dad's probably looking for you. he's got enough to worry about right now.
he's a friend.
we should get you back to your dad. let me put this down and i'll take you there. [she opens the door to the diagnostics office and puts the bags down while jasper stares at her ass. she turns around and catches him.]
[shocked.] i think that wouldn't be fair to the girls your own age.
he's not. and that's rude. i'm taking you back to your father. [puts her arm around his shoulder and leads him towards the elevator. jasper grabs her ass. she jumps away shocked. jasper grins.]
the bone marrow will just go back to over producing blood cells. she'll keep having strokes and we'll have to keep bleeding her forever.
[looks in the microscope.] if it's not a tumour that just leaves an environmental source. [they look over at the pile of stuff cameron collected to test.]
you're kidding me right?
don't get the mochachino. they screwed up and put hot chocolate in the dispenser.
you were right. that eight-year-old kid grabbed my ass. i shouldn't have encouraged him.
you were a pervert at 8?
i didn't realise you were going to get hurt. i'm sorry i misled you.
for sex. it's a simple physical...
jasper!
lucy's big brother's got a crush on me so he bit the crap out of chase.
hello?
how do you know?
yes you would think that if for some reason you were completely unaware of the fact that we spent the entire night testing everything from that home. it was all negative.
we're not his subordinates.
it can't be genetic. mom had none of the same symptoms.
[turns to house.] that's ridiculous. if menstruation is a symptom of brain cancer then i should be on chemo right now.
it's not genetic. it's not environmental. it's got to be a pituitary adenoma.
just because we haven't found anything on the scan doesn't mean it's not there. we should remove her pituitary gland.
i'm getting the father's consent. [starts to leave.]
this is your process house. you asked us what 2 + 2 is we've eliminated every number except for 4. she needs brain surgery. [leaves.]
the ovaries produce sex hormones in response to a signal from the pituitary gland. since we know the ovaries are fine the most likely cause...
dr. house knows that unfortunately we've ruled out every other option. we need to resect lucy's pituitary before...
they don't have any family in town.
they don't go to the same school house i...
they don't have one.
we wait and your daughter may die.
the treatments are extremely effective. she should lead a relatively normal life.
my husband died of thyroid cancer that metastasised to his brain. i've been there. i know how terrifying this can be. i am telling you this is your best chance to save your daughter's life.
thank you. [leaves.]
cameron.
they're beautiful. [she walks a few steps closer to chase.] i thought about what you said and ... i really don't want a relationship with you.
could have dissolved. most likely came from her heart we should do a bubble study.
your hair showed only a trace amount not enough to damage your lungs like this. we need you to stay still now.
aren't you getting tired of hearing me say it? i have no intention of going out with you having sex with you doing anything with you except work.
you did not suddenly fall in love with me. you were looking for something and i happened to be st <U+0096>
we need to put this behind us.
but you keep bringing it up!
it's got to be autoimmune something lymposidic. white blood cells are attacking her own body.
why?
her white blood cells are attacking her body. that's autoimmune.
a lot of people have bad fingernails!
we can't do anything until we can confirm <U+0096>
that's normal after radiation.
it's best to stick with liquids for now.
pain isn't the issue. just the pressure of the bp cuff was enough to start her screaming.
too much.
i think it's broken.
we were wrong too. steroids wouldn't have helped her.
there's nothing left for you to do. one of us could go home with you <U+0096>
yeah.
it won't help you.
he went to the icu.
no way we can solve this that fast. you need to find another donor.
our patient's name is matty. his brother's nick.
negative for e. coli and tb. why is house taking it easy on foreman?
yeah house is all about giving breaks to people in need.
[here we go again...] thank you. i'd forgotten.
you're really gonna do this every tuesday?
these are the only infections that cause swollen testicles. why don't you just say it four times now and leave me alone for a month?
his temperature's through the roof. there's mucus pouring out of him.
[picks up the file and reads it] slightly. there's nothing wrong with...
[sees something on the screen] wait. stop.
mitral valve. there's a growth. [looks ominously at chase] he'll need a month of antibiotics to clear that. his brother only has four days to live.
[voice-over] the infection in matty's...
...mitral valve rules him out as a donor.
we drove the infection into his heart.
[to matty] you ready?
[interjecting] you did the right thing. putting any part of this decision on him... it's impossible for you guys to deal with this. how's a ten-year-old supposed to do it?
matty had a fever. got sicker when we suppressed his immune system. that all points to
[recalling] fibrous tissue enlarged spleen fever. could mean autoimmune.
it depends on which autoimmune it is. with early detection most are manageable.
that's the other good thing about this. there's literally thousands of possible infections but only a handful of autoimmune conditions. we'll have the answer in a few hours.
are you okay?
nick's starting to deteriorate fast. he's got bruising all over his arms.
we've got to go with the four out of six donors.
how you feeling?
we put you on a variety of medications that'll fight all kinds of infections.
hopefully the new marrow will...
[softly] your infection would kill him.
[trying to be encouraging] you'll... be able to be with him when he gets better.
what's wrong?
[might as well get it over with] flames.
if we don't get this under control his blood will literally turn into water.
which is why he'll die.
not done reading go away. [house goes back into his office. ducklings continue to read the file.] most likely she coughed it up which would mean it's from her lungs. drugs toxins infection?
and blood panels found no drugs no toxins.
so then the blood came from her stomach which would mean it's an ulcer or a gi bleed.
what's going on?
what?
she seems fine.
she has diarrhoea.
does this have anything to do with addie?
get off the bed.
if we count the traces of blood as significant the differential isn't just infection. it could be lung cancer breast cancer lymphoma.
arteriogram was normal.
infections don't come and go people don't get better then worse on the same treatment.
blood panel and enzymes show her proteins are normal.
we can rule out a clotting issue because she has a bleeding issue.
figured you'd tell me when you wanted to.
you're not a jerk.
i mean... sometimes you are but i don't think we can pin that on house. [smiles.] and you're a better doctor than when you came through the door.
again not house's fault. it's a job. you're supposed to take the good and leave the bad.
why because you think i need to toughen up? you think i'm weak?
what's wrong addie?
it's not pusy.
it means it has to be something else!
house. [house is startled awake.] why didn't you pick up the phone? we've been calling.
what did you do?
chase was wrong. addie's kidneys shut down. [house half smiles.]
hemolytic uremic syndrome shut down addie's kidneys. peripheral smear of red cells had schistocytes.
if you're right then there's nothing to be done. the steroid treatment we gave her means when the next infection hits it'll hit hard. liver failure cardiac arrest.
she's going to die.
pain's not limited to his head.
concussion?
[reads a file] normal treatment for cluster headaches is steroids which the er also gave him. he's still in pain. which means...
not the kid's fault he's sick.
[turns smiling] no way. he's your brat.
[supportive] need a peer recommendation?
could be hemochromatosis.
what about hypothyroidism?
what about ruptured dermoid cyst?
the only approved treatment left for cluster headaches is brain surgery. and that's not even a guarantee.
the next step would be a type of brain surgery.
that means you're suffering from cluster headaches. which means hopefully...
[whispering to chase] take it easy. he's not well.
hold it.
he has undersized testes.
his other secondary sexual characteristics are normal.
[looking around] where's foreman?
why?
the kid's being pummeled at school. a couple blows to the head could cause hypothalamic lesions. we ever gonna talk about what happens when foreman's gone?
[re: foreman] he's gone in less than a week and you haven't even read a r<e9>sum<e9>?
it's a straightforward procedure. we thread an endoscopic tube through the nostril...
if it's a tumor it could kill you.
nate...
are you in pain?
his heart rate's normal. respiration's even.
if his liver's failing now it wasn't great yesterday. if it wasn't operating at capacity it could have caused...
no enlargement and no palpable mass so no cancer.
no signs of drug use or acetaminophen poisoning in his tox screen. maybe the water was contaminated.
hamburger stress test showed no change in his ammonia levels.
[voice-only] chem panel and urinalysis confirms the bloody urine was caused by kidney failure.
he's on dialysis. he's gonna need it for the rest of his life.
multiple organ failure could mean primary hiv infection.
hey.
the lab. we're testing our patient's blood for hereditary...
[beat] i don't believe it.
no i mean i literally don't believe it. cuddy wouldn't fire you for something like that.
[suspicious] which... means either she lied to you or you're... lying to me.
you were looking for a reaction. you were looking for me to feel bad for you. save your skin. [shrugs] but how am i gonna save you? [understands stops] unless... you think i'm the one who really did it.
and your logic was... i care about house as much as you do ergo...
it wasn't me. i don't care about house.
no one does. [sincerely] house is nothing more than my boss. foreman's nothing more than a colleague.
[enough already] everyone does. but it wasn't me.
foreman's interview in new york got screwed up.
foreman thought it was house house thought it was cuddy. cuddy thought it was wilson wilson thought it was me.
i know.
i think you sabotaged foreman just to sabotage foreman.
it was someone.
i know.
[smiling] i know. see you next tuesday.
but it's a partial deficiency. so it may not be kelley-seegmiller.
if he had kelley-seegmiller he wouldn't just be aggressive he'd be self-mutilating. chewing his lips banging his head.
that and the fact that symptoms don't lie.
[turning to face chase] he's in the icu with a failing liver and no kidneys. yeah his life is sweet.
why?
kelley-seegmiller didn't cause this seizure.
what if we're not dealing with one condition? what if it's multiple conditions?
why would he be hiding something?
not the double vision or bloody urine.
and the double vision?
so what doesn't castro know?
any other metal? must have been difficult on the boat. [she starts preparing marina for the mri]
you were on a boat without a motor?
he got you to us.
i'm in the room.
she's too young for osteoporosis that severe.
no hotspots no bone cancer. maybe we should be looking for something else.
is it raining out?
because you yelled at him?
it makes no sense.
he always makes sense.
yes it's all about you foreman. he's upset you're leaving so he fires chase.
why'd you fire chase?
you asked him to fire chase?
you're frustrated with foreman so you lash out? kick the dog?
why are you telling me that?
do i look like i'm assisting?
[finally gets up and walks to the table] why would you tell house you're leaving because he's a jerk?
why would you do that? you're not turning into house you're worse than him.
you must have hit something did you nick an artery?
we need to put her on bypass.
if we continue cpr she'll lose blood flow which will cause brain damage.
the only other option is electrical instability.
house?
house!!
go! [another nurse takes over to pump marina's chest] someone's got to talk to the husband; he thought this whole thing was going to last 45 minutes.
you need to wait outside!
i got you something.
i'll miss you. i know you won't miss me but i just thought it'd be nice for you to have that.
we can stay. we can run another differential.
because her heart won't start!
hey.
you know house firing you has nothing to do with you?
foreman will end up staying and house will call you and probably yell at you for not showing up.
i'll miss you.
i think i should go.
apparently not.
apparently they do.
you think she's lying about feeling better?
other than a miracle it's the only explanation for her symptoms.
we've looked at her heart a hundred different ways there was no evidence--
her blood pressure's rising.
right coronary flow isn't obstructed left coronary flow looks normal.
what's that?
its tuesday.
i know it's just... i didn't feel like waiting.
my resignation letter.
i've gotten all i can from this job.
no i expect you to do what you always do. i expect you to make a joke and go on. i expect you to be just fine. i'll miss you.
