the guy drove his wheelchair into a pool house would love that!
infection throwing clots house will shoot it down and call you an idiot.
what about yoga girl?
should we lead with it?
you ran here?
why did you...? [holding the bottle of water.]
i thought you said you needed 8 weeks of rehab. you should have been back here<U+0097>
you're completely pain free? the ketamine treatment can wear off.
it can take as long as--
girl was doing an inverted yoga pose neck snapped paralyzed from the neck down except the x-rays show no evidence of spinal injury. and she's cute.
you've been back at work 24 hours and you're already playing hide and seek in a woman's spine.
there's no tumor. her platelets are normal scans--
her lawyers might. you're not doing the surgery. and lower the morphine on your other patient.
what? you want a trade? we're not swapping a couple of goats for your help putting up a barn.
there already is a mechanism for that. it's called the employer-employee relationship. i get what i want and you don't.
that's it? that's your argument?
if i thought for a second you wanted to help him you'd have carte blanche. you're doing this because it's fun.
your motives have everything to do with your judgment.
24 times a year you come storming into my office spouting that you can help someone. only you never say those words you say something like his pancreas is going to explode because his brain is on fire! you come here with medicine not with platitudes.
there are no details you've a hunch. house you don't use hunches you always have reasons. this hospital doesn't exist for your whims. i'm sorry. as of 7 am tomorrow morning i'm sending your patient home.
and you discovered this when you stepped into the university pool? [she fetches him a towel and hands it through the window.]
cure him? even if the fountain proved anything fixing hypothalamic dysregulation isn't going to regenerate brain.
you didn't see any scar tissue on his mri his ct scan--
his temperature's normal. there is nothing wrong with his hypothalamus or his pituitary!
this is a wild guess! that came to you because you were sweating.
[she nods.] you're high.
this is as high as you get. a theory that ties your case up in a neat little bow but you don't have a lick of substantiating proof.
this isn't about downsides or risk management. it is a big deal for you to understand the word no! i'm sorry house. [she shuts her window and draws her curtains again leaving house alone still outside her window.]
hold on a sec. [they stop.]
yeah it's just something i forgot. [she quickly takes out a needle and a piece of cotton swab. she tugs richard's shirt down at his shoulder swabs the skin and takes the needle out.]
this is cortisol [she injects it into richard quickly.] and it's to fight infection. [she finishes and then gestures to arlene to keep holding the shirt down.] want to hold on to that? just put a bandage on it.
[softly.] yes.
you can go.
he got up. i have to go tell house.
i have to tell him. he was right!
because he's house?
nothing.
i see him every day i can't just...
and yet you're earlier than usual.
if you still did your morning run and showered at home you'd be later than usual.
how's your leg? you seem to be favoring your left side.
you slack on your rehab the muscle will weaken and your leg will hurt again. [house closes the elevator door.]
or maybe we've made him depressed because we're lying to him. telling him he got that case wrong.
he gets depressed he stops exercising. he stops exercising the muscle atrophies. the muscle atrophies the pain returns.
the ketamine could work perfectly and he would still be back on his cane popping vicodin again.
he was right!
well he's not going to od on puzzles.
he was reckless with a patient.
but he didn't know that. he needs at least some glimmer of humility.
he needs to be less reckless.
how much pain?
telling him that he got his last case right won't do anything to help him.
which might not help his leg.
just let me run a pet scan on his parietal thalamic area to see if it's sensing pain. if it is the ketamine isn't working anymore and he's headed for a huge crash. if it's not the leg pain is my fault and i will tell him the truth.
how's the kid doing?
what's going on with the leg?
if you're feeling pain <U+0096>
it's called an underwire. i want to get a pet scan of your brain.
as long as there's no increased activity in the thalamus <U+0096>
-- then the pain can be good. it could be muscle regenerating. after you work out you get sore. pain doesn't mean the ketamine failed.
i'm not pregnant. i need to get a pet scan of your brain.
i'm not pregnant!
you're in denial!
[sighs.] okay. [house's beeper beeps.]
he said he wasn't in any pain.
we need another plan.
what way?
she's not nearly as delightful as she thinks she is.
house! you're just giving up on this kid?
you don't stop you never stop you just keep on going until you come up with something so insane that it's usually right.
don't be pathetic. just forget the last case. this kid obviously has something wrong with him.
this one is a young boy. his parents are desperate. just get together with your team spend a few extra hours <U+0096>
if you have reason to believe that that might help <U+0096>
i just want you to do something.
i'm not pregnant.
he had addison's your last patient. you were right. i gave him one shot of cortisol and he woke up like rip van winkle.
[sighs.] i'm not pregnant. i heard about your little stunt with dr. powell.
a lie.
it does.
not gonna get sued for keeping him alive.
do you want me to disagree with you? [turns to house they stop walking. sarcastically.] want me to yell at you?
we're doctors: we treat patients we don't kill them.
true better be true and you're a pig.
i'm sorry about your leg.
ezra powell passed away last night. i'm sure you already knew about that.
the nurse charted at 2 am; he was stable. breathing labored but regular. and at 2:30 he suddenly stopped. [house is thinking.] you know anything about that?
err; we're going to have to do this later. a kid in the clinic had an accident. [she puts the phone down.] generally when people are on the phone--
it was stained with blood.
you think you can get me to do anything you want regardless of how stupid it is?
it's identical to the old carpet except without the hazardous biological waste.
inspiring. [she puts up her feet on the desk.] if you don't want to work in your office work in the clinic. you don't want to work in the clinic go home and don't get paid.
[walking out of her office.] no i said you can work in your office or you had to work here.
is this your master plan? disrupt hospital business until i replace your carpet?
get out of here.
no! get out of here!
do what you want not replacing your carpet. [she smiles in victory and struts back into her office.]
what are you doing here? i have this room booked from 2 to 3.
it's 2 o' clock.
house can we talk?
never.
your girlfriend called the clinic 15 times looking for you today.
house she's a stalker.
she's called you 15 times; your mother's not that interested in you.
i'm notifying security.
you better not be having fun!
she's dangerous!
she's pretty.
men are stupid.
i'm notifying security.
i didn't think he was going to ask me to dig a blood-stained carpet out of a dumpster either.
are we stopping here so house doesn't find us?
you want me to surrender to house's coup?
i defeat him by surrendering to him.
actually it's 400.
not doing it. [she continues walking down leaving a disappointed wilson.]
leave my stuff alone!
i'm going to count to 3 and then i'm going to fire you. one.
two.
doctor cuddy.
your patient is being rushed to cardiac icu.
house.
security was going to call the police; i don't want to do that to you. go home.
she got here on her own she can get home on her own. now! [ali grudgingly gets off house's bike.] and if i see you on hospital grounds again i will call the police.
i'm ovulating let's go.
house this isn't a game.
no.
hello? hello? hello? [house finally looks up.] i have sad news for you. she doesn't love you.
she showed up at my house last night came on to me.
house! she's sick.
the girl will have sex with an invertebrate.
she has a problem. you're not doing her any favors by indulging her!
you don't believe me.
she has a mole on her right breast just below the nipple.
you've seen her breasts?!
fine i'm lying. but she did come back she's locked up in my office i was hoping you could talk to her put an end to this.
house doesn't have asperger's diagnosis is much simpler; he's a jerk.
that was one of the stupidest things you have ever done and there is heavy competition for <U+0096> [house is rifling around in something.] what are you doing?
i'm not pregnant they burnt my omelet. you need to apologize to this guy.
he wants to kill you.
cup's in the other wastebasket baby's in your mind! you can berate patients all you want. shoving objects into their rectums is assault. pay attention to me.
sometimes an ass is just an ass. you are not always right house. apologize to the guy.
cameron's right there's a conflict.
i'm sure the guardian will figure that out.
i just don't want some plaintiff's lawyer owning my hospital. legalities help. speaking of which did you get your thermometer back yet?
i need to cover the hospital's ass. you're too biased. i send you in there you'll steamroll over him. something goes wrong he'll sue us for not disclosing the risks.
fine but only if you apologize to the clinic guy.
i don't care if you mean it. just do it.
i was just going to call you.
speaking of litigation [they enter cuddy's office. tritter is sitting inside.] michael tritter you know dr. house. you guys can talk here. [she leaves.]
46-yr-old guy in a coma; doesn't appear to be anything wrong with him except for the fact that he weighs over 600 pounds. what time does he usually get in?
at least. the biggest scale we've got only goes up to 350 but this guy's waistline is over 7 feet.
blood sugar's normal cholesterol's lower than mine tox screen's clean no sign of trauma.
3 times? it's almost 11. where is house?
here. [she hands him a piece of paper.]
[shifting house's feet so she can sit down next to them.] i made some calls for you. the guy's the best criminal attorney in princeton.
yeah and i assume you did as well; did it make a difference? the guy's pissed and with the dea now treating pain doctors like columbian--
tell it to your lawyer.
we just replaced the last mri you broke.
let me explain cause and effect to you.
you blow stuff up makes my life miserable. makes me need to make your life miserable.
this was your idea?
[voice-only pissed off.] put the syringe down.
[mad as heck.] we don't experiment on helpless patients!
even if you woke him it would only be for a few hours! a day! two at the most! you're risking his life!
you'll be torturing him and his family.
[voice trembling. still mad.] i want this patient monitored for the next twenty-four hours. [pointedly at house.] i want someone with him at all times to make sure you didn't kill him! i want your ass in my office--
do you know your name? know where you are?
how much are three and five?
[empathically.] ten years. [beat.] what's the last thing you remember?
sorry.
your son kyle is a patient here. i'm afraid his condition is serious. he may be dying.
no! did you really expect a different answer?
except he isn't near death. he's saying kill me and cut out my heart. are you out of your mind?
i'm sorry.
they found an open bottle of aspirin by the body. lucky he had a headache. reduced trauma to the heart in transit.
[off-screen to someone] wonderful. thank you so much. i'll be back.
you're just getting here?
where's your car?
you're not going to?
any sort of conviction will cost house his license.
[oh she's enjoying this!] how many days do you have left?
and your coming to me means your lackeys actually stood up to you. i'm impressed.
well you should be thanking them. if they caved it'd give the cops evidence that you intimidated underlings to feed your addiction.
unfortunately if i cut you off it'd give the cops evidence that you don't really need the pain meds.
[pulls back the scrip] you can't lift your arm?
you been doing physio? maybe you pulled...
your shoulder problem isn't physical.
what's new? what's different? any big changes in your life recently? fight with the wife maybe?
it's good. means your shoulder's a human being. it's a start.
[smiling] i'm right right?
ahem. little orphan annie and oliver twist slept in our hallways last night.
they're children they need a guardian.
then he's gonna keep getting sick. you gotta call social services.
so see if one of his kids is a match.
...and your past generosity made me think of you.
we're half a million dollars from our goal. of course this is a naming opportunity for your foundation.
is-is there a problem?
[quietly seething] excuse me.
[sighing] oh god.
i'm sitting in there hoping it's a sniper because at least then the sociopath isn't my employee.
[mock-pleading her fingers an inch apart] i am this close to putting a new lab in oncology.
[pissed] house...
gimme his pills.
no more free-flowing prescriptions. princeton pd has already forced wilson to shut down.
every doctor in this place is afraid to make a move without covering his ass.
you forged prescriptions!
your pain has become my pain. from now on you get reasonable doses at reasonable times.
then dip into your secret stash.
then move on to your secret-secret stash.
[annoyed whispering] then move on to your secret-secret-secret stash!
's an effective use of tax-payers' money.
i'm guessing you don't have a family.
most people have enough going on in their lives that they don't have to personalize every slight.
[angry] my head of oncology had to shut down. my entire staff are afraid to make a move without covering their ass.
[grimacing] you think dr. wilson deserved to have his assets seized? his entire practice ruined?
so you just... don't care?
[accusingly] you punish the innocent.
the pills allow him to cope with the pain.
he's not out robbing a liquor store.or...
_if_ you're right he has a medical problem. it should be dealt with by doctors! not by the...!
[loving the judge] bigger. but he knows what he's talking about.
i don't think dr. house is capable of...
yes your honour?
[bewildered] i don't even know this kid. how am i supposed to decide what's best for her?
[opening her purse] we're not gonna go broad-spectrum. there's any chance that she's allergic...
of course there's a chance.
no you're not. think of bacterial pick one antibiotic.
it kills bugs that's what you want. and go with metronidazole.
well if she were allergic to this antibiotic we would have seen it by now. i think we are out of the woods as far as that goes.
her heart's racing pressure's rising! the two of you get out.
you fight she has an anxiety attack. the two of you are making her worse. get-out and don't come back.
house can you focus on the case?
[firm] no! you are on a reasonable...
[restraining herself] keep it quiet. her bp reacts to stress. and yelling is not go...
fine! you need more pills. you're not getting them. you can have all the aspirin you want...
shouldn't we hear what the baby-sitter has to say?
we are going to use this machine to clean your blood. it goes out of you and through a filter. you know like a filter in a fish-tank.
it's... kinda cool actually.
[trying to be encouraging] it... won't hurt. it takes a while so it'll be boring but won't hurt. it's gonna make you better.
well you never know.
[brightly] how's it going?
told ya.
what's the matter?
[urgently] let's get her out of here. i'll call the or.
she's burning up.
foreman she is on fire!
[to nurse] get me some cooling blankets now.
[frustrated] how the hell are there no ice-packs in the or?!
in the er. they've joined the four car collision.
look at her arm.
[snapping] we fixed the infection!
[voice breaking] i'm busy.
[waving it off] yeah sure.
nothing.
i've seen house be rude a thousand times usually to achieve something. i have never seen him be mean just because he can.
[sighs] nothing. doesn't matter.
people think house has no... inner censor. the fact is he holds himself back because when he wants to hurt he knows just where to poke a sharp stick. [beat sniffs] i have been trying to get pregnant. and house knew. he told me i'm a failure as a mother.
[eyes closed] i have had three separate implantations - the first two never took the last one i... lost.
[agitated] a little girl is... scared and in pain. i was... awkward. terrified of doing the wrong thing.
i didn't hug her. i didn't even... reach out and hold her hand. i told her it was gonna be okay.
i told her her folks might get back together. [laughs wrily] when i see people with their kids it's so natural. it's like they have an instruction book imprinted on their genes. [voice breaking] maybe i just didn't get a copy. maybe my wanting to be a mother is like a... tone-deaf person wanting sing opera or a paraplegic who wants
what kind of quality of life will she have without...?
[voice-only] i don't know.
negative reaction starts at birth. it reaches critical mass right around this age.
[voice-only] her blood cells create chemicals in reaction to the light.
[voice-only] when they reach the liver it tries to filter out the bad cells. the chemicals damage the liver. and one by-product is gallstones.
ep can be managed. we'll give her beta-carotine. she's gonna need special lightbulbs and filters on the windows. she's probably gonna need to be home-schooled. her life will be complicated... but she will live.
it's genetic.
both of you must be carriers.
she's gonna wanna see you when she wakes up. so... don't screw it up.
well the stitches are healing nicely there's no sign of infection.
doctor. don't worry i'll be firing him soon. wait in my office.
it's a bleb wait in my office.
we'll schedule an mri to make sure but a certain number of these cases are idiopathic.
what the hell were you thinking? you didn't think ratting out this hospital's best doctor merited checking with your boss first?
which he'll never take.
how long have you known house? did you think he'd suddenly become reasonable?
there already is going to be a complete disaster. he's not going to take the deal he's going to go to jail because he's a child he's too stubborn!
we can't take away his vicodin. not only will he be in pain he'll start to detox.
he won't be able to function.
you going to explain that to his patient?
house we need to talk.
sit down.
house you're off the case. your treatment privileges are suspended until you accept tritter's deal.
i'm also cutting off your vicodin.
i'm taking over as attending. get an mri of her lungs.
we'll find out as soon as we mri her lungs. [the ducklings file out]
i hope not for everyone's sake.
i get it house was right it's the liver lets move on. what causes liver disease and a collapsed lung?
who ordered an alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency test?
you think the problem's in her pancreas?
we just forgot about the lungs now we need to forget about the liver?
did you?
no the test results mean that. your test was negative. and the biopsy indicated severe duct inflammation. do an ercp to check the liver for bile duct cancer.
you were right; the patient's pancreas is failing.
her insulin production is almost non-existent. [house is about to close the door in her face when cuddy blocks the door]
the girl is dying!
take the deal and i will.
i would rather lose one patient now than the dozens we will lose while you're in prison.
i'd feel bad can we get on with this? house correctly predicted the spread means we've got a global systemic illness affecting lungs liver and pancreas so far. ideas?
one of you is probably right why don't we hold the sniping until we find out which. wilson do an lp for lymphoma you guys run an antibody test for lupus.
what'd he say?
yes but that's virtually unconfirmable. and with a treatment more dangerous than what we were considering for lupus. how bad is he?
both.
i'll order the treatment.
much better.
it happens.
don't beat yourself up i didn't get it either.
basically we have nothing.
give me half an hour.
house it's not still's. steroids helped until the patient started bleeding from the ears and mouth.
you win you can have vicodin. [she shakes the bottle she's got in her hand and gives a rather funny grin]
are you on something? [house gives her a look that confirms her question] you got your hands on pain meds.
it's between cancer and autoimmune.
her leg looks fine.
it's impossible. we must be missing something.
i didn't give them to him.
if she doesn't have skeletal dwarfism then her short stature must be caused by growth hormone deficiency.
so what connects a long-term pituitary issue with problems in the lungs liver and pancreas?
we dismissed this earlier because there were no neurological symptoms.
you need to talk to tritter.
your lawyer isn't going to be able to get the da to drop the case tritter can.
you're not impressing anyone. you may call yourself principled but what you really are is a stubborn adolescent idiot! this isn't his fault.
[walking towards house] you used the rectal thermometer on him you insulted him instead of apologising you flaunted your drug use in his face and you refused to accept a deal...
not until after you stole a dead guy's pills.
tritter has been opening doors for you every step of the way and you keep slamming them shut. there are no more openings to give house if you wanna stay out of prison you gotta make one for yourself. [she goes to her desk and brings over a script and puts it in house's hand] it's for vicodin you function better on it. talk to him.
did tritter offer you another deal?
so this is for real this is not just a show for tritter?
the guy's heart isn't working and you want to shock his brain?
this isn't 1940 the problem can be controlled with antidepressants.
[thinks about it] go ahead.
what are you talking about?
you presented a reasonable argument. you were clear-headed and non-impulsive about it. you never once used the word moron. the rehab's working house.
house sit down.
[to gemeiner] get a recess. [follows house out]
chief administrator and dean of medicine.
yes.
that's our prescription sign out log from december 24th.
yes.
a prescription for oxycodone in the name of patient larry zebalusky.
no.
he was already dead.
yes.
he never got the pills.
dr house did pick up a prescription but it wasn't for oxycodone.
[interrupting] i know. but it wasn't oxycodone. dr wilson informed me that dr house already tried to steal the pain medication of this patient. which made it clear to me that dr house was in a particularly vulnerable and desperate state. so i went to the pharmacy and i swapped bottles dr house only got a bottle with placebos.
[pulling out a piece of paper] i have it right here on the inventory report.
[sighs] i guess i just never expected it to go this far.
surprised to see you're not spooning your way through the walls.
[annoyed] there's nothing to celebrate house you made me perjure myself - [which she said a little too loudly so she looks around to see if anyone's there and starts to talk a bit softer] fabricate evidence. you make everyone around you worse for being there. the only bright spot is that now i own your ass! when you get out of rehab you're going to be pulling double clinic duty giving lectures to students helping me find donors and pretty much anything else i ask you got it?
you got any cases?
[cutting him off] next few days you'll be doing nothing but clinic work.
you were lying.
because if you told the truth i was gonna give you only one day of clinic duty.
[firm] you'll do it. you owe me. [smugly] i kept you out of jail i can put you back.
[right back at ya] felon.
[striding up to house] house! you're doing this.
[to nurse] call security.
little late.
what did you give him?
why would you do that?!
then he's still in pain.
what're you doing here? thought house had a case.
you ordered a ct on a patient with a bug in his ear?
ran into cameron in the clinic.
you ordered pointless tests just to...
she got punished. she's stuck with another dying patient.
[what the...!] is that vicodin?
what happened to rehab?
[understanding sighing in exasperation] it was a scam?
you are going back to the clinic. or jail.
i only did that because i thought you were getting clean.
yes.
[turning to him] you owe me.
house! you can't...
i don't care. people do not...
or they're poor.
and desperate. which was why this place is here.
and the blood?
[smiling (for the sake of appearances)] we need to talk.
how can we make this more interesting for you?
[with a crooked smile enticing] i'll pay you ten dollars for every patient you diagnose without touching.
you pay me ten dollars for every one you have to touch.
no.
yes.
[holding up a file] test results are back for your std patients. i'm not paying you for them. you already touched them.
house you're committed to...
we've assigned another doctor to your care.
he knows that. that's not why we're doing this.
[huh?] w-why?
trust me it's better if you deal with somebody who specialises...
you told dr. house it's been less than a week. you haven't told anyone other than him. emotionally you're still...
[quietly] no. you think dr. house does? [beat] i'm not suggesting either one of us be your doctor. dr. stone is psychiatri...
morphine?
are you concerned?
so it's common therefore boring.
how 'bout just the ones we meet?
so your solution is not to give a damn about any of them? how do you do that? how do you take that theory
breastplate sounds shallow.
heartbeat's irregular!
house.
you only tested her for stds?
i wasted their time. [softly] she's pregnant.
she's gonna be okay.
she's talking about what happened. that's huge. you did good.
(laughs) you can't be serious.
it's not your space. it's the hospital's space. and the hospital thinks the person who's worse off should get the better space. your application for a handicapped space says you can walk 50 yards.
the space i moved you to is only 46 yards away from the front door. i measured. you'll be fine.
as long as it's not in my office.
then go get yourself one and leave me alone.
you couldn't last a week in a wheelchair.
you having a little problem?
pride goeth before the fall.
oh ho ho ho.
why would i do that?
i said i would give you the space if you made it a whole week
you didn't. the bet didn't stipulate that you had to be in the chair for a week unless you had to barge into an operating room and shove your hands in a kid's bowels.
you lost.
you lost house.
no you didn't.
you lo-hos-ost.
she knew i'd win.
is this a real case or one of those imaginary cases that happen when you're bored?
cipa is a diagnosis. diagnoses happen at the end of cases.
in other words she could be perfectly healthy but you're curious about someone who can't feel pain because you always feel pain so you want to go exploring.
do your tests except for the
do your tests. except for the nerve biopsy.
you'd risk paralyzing her.
you have no evidence of that.
do you have any evidence other than the fact that a typically clumsy cipa patient tripped on an icy day? (house shakes his head) if the eeg reveals a problem we can talk then.
oh can we please not talk about that. i will talk about anything else but i'm just trying to get away from work.
well the snow.
experience has taught me to have an escape route.
(smiles. then she sees house through the window. her face falls) whatever happens i need you to understand that there are certain aspects to my life i'm not happy about.
and you had to come here personally to tell me that. and how did you even know i was here?
most cipa complications are infection and she's got a fever. lp? urine?
cancer?
fine. if that's what you need go get it.
nooooo.
i already okayed your nerve biopsy.
bennett's on call.
mine's working.
(reading) i assume you're thinking thyroid storm. you done a hormone panel?
no. what about cpk enzymes?
cpk isn't high enough. potassium's what you'd expect because of the bronchodilators.
it's not thyroid storm.
i like him. and i like sex. do i need to stitch a letter on my tops?
(taking a couple of steps forward) do you like me house? i was on the phone with bennett 15 minutes ago. his cell phone's working. you're m.o is to avoid me at all costs. and suddenly you need my input on every move you make. i can only assume it's because i'm on a date.
you noticed he was a shriner because of the way he parted his hair. you noticed he was a momma's boy because of the way he blinked his left eye. i'm not interested. i'm not impressed. there are only two reasons anyone would want to screw with me tonight. either they're an altruistic decent person who's worried about my well being. or they want me for themself.
goodnight house. (she goes in closing the door. goes to living room) we won't be bothered again.
why?
(covering face with hands) you heard the conversation. i'm not interested in him.
i only said those things so he wouldn't come back.
i like those things too.
i can get her on the phone. (don kisser her on the cheek and leaves)
did you think you could steal dr. house without a fight?
quit jerking me around. i know he's coming out there.
he's called you six times in the last month!
you think if you keep repeating it i'll start believing you?
if he's not coming there for a job interview he's either coming to your hospital for a social visit or because he's a patient.
[hoping against hope] is it a social visit dr. medick?
d'you know dr. kupersmithin boston?
what's his sub-specialty?
[voice over] he doesn't look sick. he should have symptoms. blurred vision headaches confusion clumsiness...
he didn't tell you?
house is house.
it's the middle of the night. you know i'd be asleep.
takayasu is manageable with steroids which you already know. so i assume you're here for something else.
also manageable with anticonvulsive medication.
[in disbelief] you want to remove half his brain?
[arguing] you don't remove half a brain and gain function.
[beat] what's the father wanna do?
[standing up] so go wake him up.
house i'm so sorry.
i'm here if you need me.
[softly] thanks. good luck in boston.
[without turning or stopping] call the make-a-wish foundation.
up and at em you're supposed to be in clinic duty.
[hands house a file.] here. ex-marine. thinks he has gulf war syndrome.
so he's been told it hasn't stopped the unexplained fatigue rashes and joint pain. and just so you know he's the nephew of a benefactor i owe a favour so you're going to take this case whether you like it or not.
you know him?
ok...well you're about to. he's on his way here. get your ass up and get your team together. you've got work to do. [cuddy leaves. house continues to stare at the photo.]
how is he?
[shocked.] oh god.
there was definitely no mix up i had them recheck.
they didn't lie [house pops a pill and then a second.] did you just take two vicodin?
[sighs and hands house a scan.] the va scan of his brain. no tumours.
you see that bright spot below his left orbit. that is the titanium pin your patient had inserted 20 years ago. unless you think the va happened to mix up his scans with someone who had the exact same pin they didn't screw up.
6 tumours don't just disappear.
the va didn't screw up.
maybe there's something wrong with the portable imager in the or.
that miraculously healed?
if it's an infection why didn't it show up in his blood work?
who approved a sodium bicarb infusion?
he's unconscious his skin has lost all colour and his bp and hematocrit are plunging.
he doesn't need a transfusion.
because obviously you need my help.
house are you all right?
i'm always here.
i didn't lie i simply chose not to share completely irrelevant facts.
i was not.
[puts her hand on his chest to stop house talking.] this is exactly why i didn't mention our one date over two years ago.
[drags house away from the nurses station.] because you are an obnoxious ass. because you would've spent the whole time...
how did you even remember him? we were only at that party for like 10 minutes.
you remembered him because he made out with me.
you're lousy with faces.
[still smiling.] get over me. [starts to walk away.]
because you're a good doctor who couldn't get himself hired at a blood bank so i got you cheap.
stop staring at my ass when you think i'm not looking showing up at restaurants where i happen to be on a date and fantasising about me in the shower. that ship sailed long ago house. get over it. [walks away.]
we'll monitor the baby's heart rate separately. we won't allow it to decrease anywhere near dangerous levels. {she turns on second monitor which shows a heart rate of 208.]
you're both going to be fine. go ahead dr. cameron.
start threading the catheter.
you want to paralyze emma sloan's baby?
cameron and chase both had their concerns.
they're sleeping together?
here?
i will deal with them after i deal with you.
paralyzing a one-pound baby risks damaging <U+0096>
you're gonna need to get her consent.
i'm going with you.
the baby won't feel a thing.
it must be easier to hear that you might die than your baby might die. but if there's anyone i would trust to save my baby it would be dr. house. [emma snorts again.]
dr. cameron the mri results back?
let me see. [she reaches for the patient folder in cameron's hand.]
[looking at film] the baby has a lower urinary tract obstruction. we can fix that by inserting a shunt. i'll give emma the news.
house won't care. he has his diagnosis. [she starts to leave then stops] dr. cameron. dating chase can only end in one of two ways.
you get married and live happily ever after or somebody gets hurt and you two can't work together and i have to fire somebody.
i'm telling you this for your own good.
chase isn't the one who's gonna get hurt here.
there's a blockage in the urinary tract. simple terms your baby can't pee. his bladder is swollen and it's crushing his lungs.
we can insert a small tube in the baby's bladder that makes the bladder come out straight through his belly for the duration of the pregnancy. the bladder decompresses and the lungs will be able to develop normally. when the baby gets better you should get better.
first we just have to do a test to determine whether the baby's kidneys are functioning properly.
if they're already too damaged then there's really nothing we can do. if this doesn't work out you can always try again.
what are you doing?
you don't have the cleavage for it.
they aren't back yet.
you think my diagnosis is wrong?
doesn't mean i'm wrong. could just mean we caught the obstruction early.
fine then i'll do another tap.
thank you. i'll run two more taps.
she's an important patient.
[pushing the file at him] it's your file.
then why did you just say all that stuff?
you're taking the case back.
[shoves the file in his hand] you can go on vacation after you've cured her.
did you give corticosteroids to speed the baby's lung development?
give the lungs more time to expand so you can see inside them see if they're the problem.
you're not going to get emma to see it that way. she's probably already named the baby. read him books had conversations with him.
no.
if the baby had a doctor i think she would recommend exhausting all possibilities before taking its life.
too bad she's your boss.
what if our original assumption is wrong.
if we assume she doesn't have mirror syndrome then terminating her pregnancy isn't going to help her liver at all.
fine. let's assume she had mirror syndrome but we fixed it when we fixed the baby's bladder. that means that her failing liver would be completely unrelated. if it is we can fix it. and we don't have to terminate.
it's not a surprising coincidence. pregnant women can develop liver problems. if this is the case we can actually do something here. don't you guys think that's worth exploring.
thank you.
this can probably wait until after we biopsy emma's liver right?
come in from above. instead of going straight in through her abdomen go in through the veins in her neck. transjugular hepatic biopsy. if the liver starts to bleed it will bleed right back into her own veins. [the fellows leave. house flies his airplane. it hits cuddy who looks at him. he looks away innocent.] why don't you start your vacation now?
did the biopsy cause the pre-term labor or did it happen on its own?
pre-term labor can be a new symptom. new information gives us new theories. isn't that how it works?
a torch test could <U+0096>
then let's work faster.
but it could help to see what the baby's been hiding. the only organ we haven't been able to look inside is its lungs. the problem must be in there.
then let's drown them in corticosteroids. multiple courses. speed up their development.
worse than death?
it's the only chance we have to see inside those lungs. we're just going to have to make the baby better faster than we make emma worse. [they look at her.] come on. this is the kind of thing house does every day.
i'll do it myself. [she leaves pulling her hair into a ponytail with the scrunchy.]
nurse! [wilson enters.]
who tattled? doesn't matter.
gee thanks.
that's not what she wants.
either get me a laryngoscope or get out. [wilson leaves. cuddy and two nurses continue working on emma.]
you were right. you were all right. now the mom's lungs are shutting down. [she sits.] she's dying faster than the baby's lungs are developing. i had to stop the corticosteroids.
the only family she's got is that baby.
what do you think house would do?
i know. i mean if he didn't. if he shared my position. what do you think he would do?
right. he would prioritize his problems. [she stands and heads toward door.]
he wouldn't be afraid of screwing with her lungs if there was a bigger issue.
not right now. she's already on a respirator. the machine is breathing for her. i can do whatever i want to her lungs. if you're playing catch in the living room and you break your mother's vase you might as well keep playing catch. the vase is already broken.
[leaving] i'm putting her back on corticosteroids. [she leaves slamming door. wilson sighs.]
it worked.
i got the baby's lungs to expand. we should be able to figure out <U+0096>
i have a whole new appreciation for what you do. how hard it is to believe when everyone around you is telling you that you're wrong.
do you think i'm an idiot? [she pulls out an x-ray.]
but big enough for a diagnosis.
i was thinking bronchogenetic cysts or bronchial atresia.
what about <U+0096> [house has slammed the door in her face. she stands there for a few seconds apparently in shock when the door reopens. house has put his jacket on.]
portable mri's in her room. we could get a current image <U+0096>
he is a person.
the umbilical cord won't be cut. during surgery your body will basically serve as the baby's heart-lung machine. we find what's wrong and we fix it. if we can.
she should know what she's facing. [house is doing ultrasound of baby.] this is incredibly dangerous. it risks both your lives. the only reason why we're suggesting it is because there's nothing else we can do.
affix the pulse ox to the palm. [he continues to look at the hand and stroke it with his thumb.] house.
fetal heart rate good stats are stable.
[grabbing paddles] charging. clear.
it's fine v-fib. i'm going again. [monitor still flat.]
step away house. i'm going again.
you keep going you're going to get electrocuted. [he jumps back just as cuddy shocks emma again.] going again. clear. [and again. the monitor starts beeping normally.]
continue with the lobectomy. [cuddy and house look at each other.]
house. need you to take a look at something.
just open it. [hands him envelope.]
shoot. it's the wrong envelope. [she giggles.] i think it's great.
it's big. you're <U+0096> you're trying to have a life. you're trying to enjoy yourself.
i'm not. i told you why i'm <U+0096>
i saved a life. i saved two lives.
sometimes point 1 is bigger than 9.9.
well not for emma. and not for her son. now go away. and be happy.
it had a corkscrew in it.
it could be used as a weapon against the pilot.
you'll get it back when we land.
[deadpan] delivering goodwill to yet another continent.
[arguing] you gave a three-minute speech. you know how much who accreditation means to the hospital.
[painful to think about it] and the room service thing was just spiteful.
three hundred dollars for a bottle of wine.
a hundred and twenty dollars on video services.
that's five hundred in expenses i can't justify.
[skeptically] right.
[surprised] no i booked two first-class tickets. this must be a mistake.
[wearily] what do you want?
[quietly grateful] thank you.
not funny.
fever headache severe abdominal pain and a rash all over his lower back. it's serious. may be contagious.
if it's meningococcus half the passengers on this plane could get infected and die before we reach new york.
[turning to joy] watch the movie.
[whispering even lower] that booze did not give him the rash. it is textbook meningococcus.
[to house] we have to turn around.
[defiant] we're about to head over the north pole. we don't turn back now the next er's fifteen hours away.
without any way to do an lp to rule out meningococcus our only choice is to assume the worst.
[mad] who doesn't?
just passed the half-way mark. can't turn around. nice call.
wouldn't explain the fever.
wouldn't explain the abdominal pain.
wouldn't explain the nausea.
[to house] since when does food-poisoning cause rash?
[sighing] meningococcus makes just as much sense.
hey here you go.
[reassuring] we're doing all we can. don't know what's wrong with him yet.
no.
here chew on these.
peng's getting worse.
[leaning in] or you're wrong and we're gonna start seeing neurological symptoms soon. seizures paralysis ataxia.
[peeved] you're so sure you're right.
i assumed you did.
you wanna look at it for five more minutes before concluding it's also definitely a leg.
so?
from a broken leg?
he could break every bone in his body and still not have enough x-rays to cause radiation sickness.
and her rash?
[skeptically] two different diagnoses. i thought you didn't believe in coincidences.
[really uncomfortable] house.
house!
[really looking run down] you're wrong.
[complaining hoarsely] i said we should've turned back. you should have listened to me. now we're eight miles over the arctic...
mm... photophobia! symptom of meningitis! we need antibiotics.
[softly] you're creeping me out.
house i'm not in heat.
use your imagination.
if we don't get drugs we're gonna have a lot of dead passengers.
[wearily] any antibiotics?
there're six patients. give 'em to peng.
the first aid kit has two epi pens.
he's worse.
[weak but firm] give him the meds.
then do an lp on him. if it's clear you win. if it's cloudy he gets the augmentin and we risk a reaction.
[deadpan] you're right. let him die. give me the meds.
what is it?
[too late] just tell me what the hell it is! house!
[accusingly] we should have turned back. we should have turned back!
[frantic] house!
house you're wrong!
no.
how did you know?
he really is dying.
[looking at the air(-headed) ducklings aside to house] do we really need these three?
house is this actually helpful?
what about syphilis?
we're flying out of singapore. if he has a credit card and a condom he can get anything he wants.
what?
you think he's a mule.
d'you really think he's a mule?
okay...?
big deal.i have one of these.
[to keo] tell the captain to drop as low as he can under five thousand feet.
peng's got the bends.
thank you.
i wasn't sick.
i know it now.
[smiling shaking her head] i don't owe you.
that's how i compensate for being weak... soft.
[comes in anyway.] restrictive pericarditis.
she's in kindergarten.
it's calcified and she's hypertensive.
she already is in surgery.
[picks up the file and follows house.] no congenital defects no health problems but her heart is strangling itself.
get started on her blood you can test for viral infections bacteria... [house opens the door to the diagnostics office in cuddy's face. throws the file on the table.]
need you now. [leaves.]
6-year-old abuse victim and you haven't called social services?
the law's clear you suspect abuse you call the authorities. you don't proceed as usual while the possible abuser sits by her bedside.
it's always the dad and i don't have a curfew.
i went to a play [house is shocked.] house you are going back to your office you are picking up your phone calling social services and you are reporting suspected abuse. do you understand?
what's up with wilson?
why?
i don't get the whole may - december thing.
well why can't it be october - october?
[laughs.] if that guy wasn't trying so hard to keep up with a women half his age he wouldn't have almost killed both his kids.
so many people so much energy and drama just trying to find someone who's almost never the right person anyway. it just... shouldn't be so hard.
you heard about that?
that's a trick question.
i like art. i'm open to new things. what's the problem?
house why is my social life suddenly red-hot? one minute i'm mushing along with the huskies as usual and all of a sudden it's global warming. you think you saw someone pick up a toy from the sandbox and suddenly you want it.
maybe i just want a friend and wilson is a safe choice.
going to a gallery we're not getting married.
so this is hockney?
i'm sure you don't. i never knew your tastes were so ecletic.
wow. i don't think i've ever seen you embarrassed before.
that's such a bad idea. there's no way that won't cause damage to the large intestine.
that's what i'm saying!
[to house] do you have anything to add to this debate?
[to foreman] what do you want me to do?
no. [to wilson] go explain the choices to the parents. and don't let house bully them.
house. did he really think i was gonna do that?
then why did you let him...?
[yeah right] nice of you.
and you're... giving him time to work through it?
are you sure?
the parents agreed to infect him.
i'm sorry. the reason matty is so sick is because the infection is attacking his marrow. he doesn't have enough left to safely take from him and give to his brother.
now a good time?
now. [to foreman.] this includes you. [all 3 head off towards house's office.]
[to foreman.] are you sure?
why?
well that's a good enough reason. [hands foreman a form.] sign here.
good luck.
you want me to?
[to foreman.] would it make any difference?
good luck dr. foreman. [hugs foreman then leaves.]
oh well that's too bad cause i just got tickets to a stroke on the third floor. have you had a conversation with foreman?
you haven't because then you would have to confront your own emotions.
[gives the money back.] there's always tomorrow.
nothing.
yeah.
yeah. the one that would have died if not for him.
thanks. you're really scared you'll turn into him?
i'm telling you there are worse things to turn into.
what are you talking about?
well i take it you're off your antidepressants.
does foreman actually think i did that?
why would i do it?
no.
i'm waiting for board approval.
wasn't me.
what are you doing?
[ushering him out] send in nurse unger when you pass her on your way out.
[deadpan] yeah no problem.
i was being sarcastic.
i assume you've considered he could have a psychogenic experience. possibly suffer a fit of severe paranoia.
low dose. no more than ten milligrams. tightly controlled setting.
and make sure the mother signs off on it.
i'll double your salary.
chase and cameron wouldn't be heading up their own diagnostic group. [hands him a folder] you'll work in parallel with house. it'll be your practice. separate staff separate cases. complete autonomy.
three years under house. no better training.
[deadpan at first] or you can just let that patient die. that's completely up to you. [smiles sweetly]
why?
he didn't sabotage your interview.
[quickly] because i did.
[calling after him] i didn't! you believed me - means you're not sure house did it.
[accusing] you killed foreman's job interview.
[speaks fast] somebody did. wasn't me and it wasn't house which means it has to be somebody who thought he was protecting house. which means it has to be somebody who actually likes house. which means it's either you or the... weird night janitor who wears his pants backwards.
[protesting] i give him...
[slyly] you're lying.
an enabler doesn't conspire against an enabler enables.
[looking back] what?
you made that call. and because of that call you basically guaranteed foreman's out of here.
[walks in] why'd you fire chase?
you two out. [they exit]
you can't dump your entire department just because you don't know how to deal with an issue.
pick up the phone and tell chase you made a mistake. un-fire him.
chase is a good doctor.
my building my floor my people.
human behaviour finals will also get into clinical presentations of mania and we'll touch on stanislas dehaene's pet scans.
house when we're done with our rounds-
[turns to the class] anyone?
your patient isn't already on bypass?
how long?
house. bypass now.
[walks in] how's it going?
thank you.
when do you plan on telling the husband it's time to say goodbye to his wife?
other than your curiosity do you have any reason to keep her on bypass?
well you're on a storybook ending for the young man who crossed the ocean for his wife.
then pull the plug.
i know you care--
you've done all you can do. it's time to let go. [she walks out]
