we need to pick something up from a haunted house?
your friend's a writer?
(browsing the bookshelves) alice tanner. why does that name sound familiar?
(approaching house) no. she's the woman you put on the psych hold. this isn't a date. we're on a case.
did you steal her keys?
house christina has agreed to not call the police.
has she ever complained about physical pain or stress?
(to house) what are you doing?
this would be me ignoring you. (finally looking up) what if we got arrested last night? and whatever happened to keeping our professional and personal lives separate?
what's behind your back?
what room should i return it to?
i'm pretty attached to mine. i told you to hire a temporary replacement for thirteen two weeks ago.
doing what?
you'll hire a woman doctor?
next week.
your symptoms. now i can perform the procedure myself if you still prefer a woman doctor but the team you have is our best.
it was a gift.
if you'd prefer another female doctor i can arrange that as well.
this woman cares about you. if it weren't for her<U+0097>
i understand that you're in pain but lashing out isn't the answer. treatment is.
wilson just told me we're going on a double date with him and sam tonight.
i'd just like if you'd ask me first.
is this alice's book?
you used a 3 million dollar piece of hospital equipment so you could read a novel?
well as your girlfriend i'm impressed. as your boss you're a jackass. don't do it again.
as your boss you just got six more clinic hours next week. (house glares at her) so what's the plan for tonight?
i don't care. just pick something we'd both enjoy.
i don't know. you know what i like. i got to get back to work.
(looking at house with disbelief) go-carts? really?
you called my mother. i loved them when i was 12.
(grinning back at him) you know who wins these races? the person who weighs less!
what is her problem?
never... again.
(rubbing her shoulder where the seat belt has cut into it). ooh. ahhh.
(rubbing her shoulder) seatbelt nearly broke my neck. i'm done for the night.
you picked the place.
i know. alice is refusing surgery.
which is why i've spent the last four hours trying to find a legal way to do it without her permission. unsuccessfully. i'm sorry.
'cause she wants to die.
maybe alice tanner's just her pen name.
(getting up and picking up the phone on her desk) i'll contact the national records archive and run the type of screws in her leg against blood type age and anything else i think of.
even better.
her son didn't have a brain aneurism.
as your boss i am opposed to you lying to a patient. as your girlfriend i'm glad you care.
well i can see why you like him. i started reading one of the books you gave me.
why? because i can't like something you like? we couldn't possibly
oh.
yeah.
i'm not gonna dump you because we like different food or books or music. on the other hand i might dump you if you don't talk to me when you have a problem with our relationship.
who cares about common? common is boring. it's... common! i like being with you. you make me better. hopefully i make you better. what we have is... uncommon. and i've never been happier.
that was<U+0097>
my wrists are tired.
you understand right? the babysitter's leaving in half an hour.
it was at that moment she realized the romance was already gone.
oh hi.
hey so i'm seeing you tonight
i was just wondering your masseuse
i'm sure i'm imagining this although i'm not as sure now that i know her name but she seems a little how do i say this? i don't know. um a bit slutty.
what? did you have sex with her?
but you used to have sex with her.
so you really think that i would be okay with you getting a massage from a hooker you used to have sex with?
i know a great physical therapist. i will give you her number.
because i asked you to.
i won't see you until you stop seeing her.
oh you've gotta be kidding.
as an admission he was wrong?
well tell him thanks but i have a meeting with dr. katz in 20 minutes.
well tell him he needs to stop canceling my appointments because i will just reschedule them.
[sighs] that's so nice.
how long have you been a masseur?
a massage therapist.
how did my boyfriend find you?
dr. house.
why is that surprising?
are you a prostitute?
get your hands off me.
seriously? a massage from a male hooker?
except that i didn't used to have sex with him you idiot! plus he was a gay hooker.
i'm sure that some part of you believes this idiocy. but you can't possibly be stupid enough to think that you can convince any part of me. and that can only mean you're trying to sabotage this relationship.
because the next step from fine is serious and you can't handle that so you're trying to keep me at arm's length with all this crap.
i have been completely open with you.
but do you want to spend time with her?
house i need to protect her. i let you into her life and you go away
what are you doing?
you done with brandi?
i will get you the name. let's stay at my place tonight okay?
no.
okay.
you want some more meat?
i need you a minute. [she heads into house's office]
my nanny called. her daughter has a dance recital tonight. she can't work late. [house eyes her in confusion] and i have a board meeting tonight.
my mother can't come. she has a cooking class.
[sarcastically] if only there were... some mature adult in my life who could pinch hit in emergencies like this.
all i need is a warm body. she'll be asleep the entire time.
you could deal with your team by phone.
i'm not bargaining sex for babysitting. besides you owe me.
sex! i still don't see a female doctor in that room. it's making me very unhappy.
be at my place at 7:00.
[enters the hall] did she wake up at all? [house looks guilty but says nothing]
[immediately worried] that's not like her... is she all right?
i have to get up early. you won't be able to sleep in.
[half-awake] huh?
[bemused] oh... thanks.
is everything okay?
you want me to reset the alarm?
your boss must really like you. [she kisses his cheek and leaves. the camera lingers on house for a moment.]
[sits down] problems in radiology. a radiation dosimeter badge turned positive. i could have a ct scanner that's leaking... a spilled vial of thallium somewhere... i don't even know whose badge it was. the code was scratched off.
[covers her eyes with her hand] i don't know. all i know is that i'm gonna need to work late. i was actually hoping that you could baby-sit.
please.
please.
[leans over his desk deliberately exposing her cleavage] i will make it worth your while.
thank you. [they kiss and cuddy leaves. house looks very satisfied with himself]
what happened to helping out?
what's that smell? onions? peppers? oh i know it's a sausagefest.
i'm talking about your department. you still haven't replaced thirteen.
you've had plenty of time to find someone.
it's time to end the cycle. (handing him a file) meet your new team member. her name is martha m. masters.
she's a third-year med student. she graduated high school when she was 15. she filled out the time before med school getting phds in both applied math and art history.
this isn't a suggestion.
nope i get to do that because i'm your boss. (she leaves)
very. unless you had cause. real cause. cause that a human being would consider cause.
it's worth having someone on the team who doesn't see the world entirely as shades of gray.
to you.
she has a fresh perspective. unless that threatens you. (she enters the elevator.)
no he isn't.
butting heads with house is par for the course. house has strong beliefs and he respects other people with strong beliefs.
you've been in there for less than a day.
and yet you chose medicine. which is a team activity. it's pretty gutsy stepping so far outside your comfort zone.
need a minute.
you said you were gonna give her a chance.
your team is there to challenge you.
she's a potential star and i want her in my hospital.
better chance it'll kill him.
it's not an approved treatment and exposes us to liability. there's no way i can let you do this.
you're the one that insisted he run this by me.
what about the fact that we don't have any proof he actually has hep c?
if you really think that this is the only way to cure him i will risk the lawsuit. but i need to know that he actually has the disease. get me proof.
proof! get me proof he has hep c and then you can give him hep a.
you'll figure something out. the two of you have combined i.q. north of 300.
thank you. there was a time when you would have completely ignored my request. that means a lot that you respect me enough to do this.
and miss the ultimate admission that i was right about masters all along?
i have to work late. gloating requires a lot of paperwork.
house was treating anderson's campaign manager not the senator himself.
why did you think he was the patient?
when?
house's team ran a hep c test on joe dugan on friday. can you look up the time?
i don't think so.
33-year-old male with hemoptysis fever
you can't apologize we can't talk. and puncture wounds.
lying to me was not the right thing. puncture wounds are from a crucifixion.
the hospital's chairman of the board? i'm not gonna stand him up and neither are you.
(as house gets into the elevator) you're also going to the rehearsal dinner friday night. dressy casual.
ask records.
ask your patient.
and why would he think that?
and i'm going to violate patient privacy laws just to keep you happy?
when we're at work we need to focus on our work thoughts. (she finally notices his clothing choice) why are you wearing that?
you look like wilson. it looks weird. well you knew i'd think that. which makes me wonder why you look disappointed.
you knew i wouldn't like it but you thought i would say i did. that's what this is about. you're trying to trap me into lying to you.
heard you got the daughter's file. patient change his mind?
thank you for your honesty.
(stopping in front of her office door) 4-3.
very.
you're right. i did lie. to hr. not to you. when i first applied for the vp admin job i was 29 years old. i knew i would be taken more seriously if i were
even if you can trap me you think i'll suddenly embrace the value of lying?
(letting her hair fall) that'll make a lovely toast.
i give it 19 months.
no fault divorce in new jersey requires couples to live at least 18 months apart. i'm actually only giving it a few weeks.
not today.
and you care?
thank you.
just to be clear this whole little act isn't gonna work. i need an apology. not flattery.
you hate weddings.
never?
well i'm a sucker for the white gown.
well i may not be young but i'll be first-time. (she refills her glass at a champagne fountain)
so this was all your trap?
well played. (she puts down her glass and walks away from him)
(to house who has entered the office) good work today. i don't even think your patient's gonna sue. it looks like everybody's happy.
thank you.
pediatrician appointment for an s-h-o-t. waldenwood insists vaccination reports go in with the application. [to rachel.] honey finish your oatmeal.
it's our first-choice preschool.
great facilities and teachers. and they're known for their gifted program.
i've done my research. we visited. it's a perfect fit.
no. [she pulls the blouse off. she's wearing a purple bra.]
mom.
beating? that's normal for humans.
i think we need to get you to the hospital.
she needs a doctor.
what about the macrocytic anemia?
you really think she's psyching herself into atrial fibrillation?
[quietly] this is my mother.
which other symptoms mom?
[cutting him off] we'll monitor you and we'll give you a thyroid test. and house's team will do a home search for environmental toxins.
i'll start a chelation i.v. thank you so much. that wasn't too much of a disaster was it?
not my yearbook
go mom. [she gives him a kiss and enters the room.]
so why were you taking a mexican folk remedy?
a friend? mom just for medical reasons you should have told me. if you're sexually active<U+0097>
mom's having a fling.
you do?
hold on. five years? why didn't you tell me about it?
an hour to convince her to go with dr. kaufman and only then because he runs internal medicine. she wanted to leave the hospital entirely.
if she's getting better it's not because you made her feel like a fool.
it's hard enough dealing with my mom being sick. this juvenile<U+0097> [her phone rings.] yeah?
oh god.
i'll be right there. [to house] a-fib's at 170.
you're not off the case.
no no. you are staying on. she just can't know about it.
alcoholic?
i have to ask her about this.
i don't think she'll lie to me.
we have our issues but since dad died we tell each other the truth when asked directly. it's important to us.
can i speak to mom alone?
mom i think your drinking is causing your heart problems.
patsy and anne told me last week you lost control at the museum luncheon.
we are all concerned. just tell me honestly how much have you been drinking?
[long pause] okay. [she starts to leave then turns back.] for your stomach pains. [she gives arlene two pills and pours her a glass of water.]
if something like that comes up again just do what you need to do.
yeah. i am being a coward which is exactly why doctors shouldn't treat their own families. congratulations. you were right as usual.
she spiked a fever. it's 102.
you were wrong about the alcoholism.
kaufman rushed the biopsies. it's not cancer.
not really.
why are you still here?
i'll look into it. thank you for coming to me.
i meant like if you had to slip her a few more vitamin pills or something. this is life-threatening! it's illegal. i wasn't expecting something like this.
[calmer] are you completely sure it's endocarditis?
where'd julia go?
i've got a family.
you are always tougher on me than julia. why is that?
i was thinking about when you made me run for yearbook editor <U+0097> i didn't want to. i didn't have a social life my whole senior year. you let julia do whatever she wanted.
like anything's changed.
okay.
lungs clear?
it's an allergic reaction.
i switched out the antibiotics put her back on prednisone <U+0097> her breathing's normal. but the a-fib's back and her fever's up.
no that is terrible! he doesn't know that she got worse on antibiotics so now he's thinking endocarditis. he'll put her back on the antibiotics that almost suffocated her. what do we do?
i don't think i can take a risk like that.
this has blown up on you once already.
i'm so sorry i got you guys into this. you should go.
i know. and i'll do it but<U+0097>
marty calm down.
mom you're very ill and you're very angry. you really think now is the right time to make a decision like this?
i'll get the ambulance. [leaves]
i can't believe it. what just happened?
are you blaming me? this is all because you're so arrogant you goaded her into firing you!
she would have left the hospital.
you think i can control her?
i have been rebelling against this woman my entire life.
are you taking this personally?
you were. and i know why. you see something in me that you didn't see in julia and you didn't see in you <U+0097> a type of ambition a type of brains. that's why you rode me. you made me yearbook editor summa undergrad a.o.a. in med school. the only time i ever see light in your eyes is when you hear me talking about my job. the reason you keep coming to see me in the clinic is because you trust me. you trust my medical judgment. so here it is. if you transfer to princeton general you'll be treated well and you'll die. if you stay here with house you'll be treated badly but you'll live. i don't care if i have to slash the tires of every ambulance in this bay mom. i am not letting you leave my hospital.
i got it. how you feeling mom?
what are you talking about mom?
she can't recognize sarcasm?
mom? mom! heart rate 170. nurse! [to house] do something.
house!
[injecting something in arlene's i.v. line] i don't know.
it can't be. you treated with chelation for lead.
what are you doing?
the muscle's black. necrosis?
okay you might have a point. how do you feel?
my computer crashed. lost my database of his acquaintances.
i know nothing about wilson having a friend named sarah. satisfied? (she leaves)
(sitting at her desk) no. i said i didn't know anything about wilson having a friend named sarah. under house rules that is not a lie. he's lonely. that cat is a nice way for him to get some affection.
why is it so important to you?
he just needs more time. leave him and the cat alone.
thank you.
i thought your wilson fetish was over.
you've gotta let that guy alone.
is that what this is about? you feel guilty because wilson's the one that's alone and not you? you still don't think you deserve this.
your happiness doesn't take his away. it's okay to enjoy it.
house? house? [she gets out of bed and takes a few steps toward the bathroom stretching and trying to wake up. a hand comes out from under the bed and grabs her ankle.] oh! my god! what the hell?
did you actually wake up early and hide under the bed just to scare the crap outta me?
it's like dating a ten-year-old.
hold that thought. [she gets up.]
i have to pee.
[from the bathroom] house?
house shut up. [he shuts up and slides out the other end of the bed so he can see her as she comes to the bathroom door.] there's blood in my urine.
you really don't have to be here.
i'm mainly talking about them.
that can't wait an hour?
get them outta here. my urethra is not for public entertainment.
okay! you too.
why do you have my lab results?
unless the blood came from my kidneys.
you're right. odds are this is nothing.
i need to schedule an ultrasound.
thank you. shut up!
just treat me like any other patient.
no. [yes] hurry up before i pass out.
wilson?
stop talking like a doctor and tell me what you see.
all that's in the uh first mutual safety deposit box. the retirement accounts<U+0097>
as demonstrated by my sitting here calmly going about my business.
i'm a single mom. i need to set up a trust appoint a guardian. it's silly that i haven't done it before now.
the biopsy's not till tomorrow. it's the first opening in the schedule.
my worry isn't any more important than anyone else's.
but i'm not sick right?
i mean if you're okay with this. you have three kids of your own.
we've only been together a few months.
people change.
tell house i'm fine.
as a jew i'm gonna have to decline that offer.
you don't actually believe that. but i do. all these years he's never stopped trying to annoy me for more than 15 minutes. and now he can't even walk into the room.
[from somewhere nearby] house help me!
house please!
house! [house turns and tries to locate the sound of her voice.] aah aah!
honey i'm home.
smells wonderful!
and how was your day today?
your lsats? you're eight years old.
well that's wonderful. [she pats rachel on the head as she goes to put her briefcase down.]
well who could that be?
i'm not 29! [house walks over to take the cake from wilson.] you're not limping. this isn't possible. none of this is possible.
you run out of sugar?
i don't want to hear it.
i hate karaoke.
i do a mean version of physical.
what about the fries?
you had candy in my other dreams.
no. i was hoping [she puts his gun in his hand] you'd figure out a way to handle all this. maybe you can't because you're still a child.
might be too late.
house!
ah
i knew you'd come.
make it two.
[whispers]






hm.
hi.
house.
then what was in my lungs?
ugh! wait. [she takes it and studies it intently.] there are so many things that i could be afraid of and most of the time i manage to lock them up behind doors. but this happens all those doors just burst open. [house gets a far-away look.] you just figured something out about your patient didn't you? [her smile is both indulgent and proud.] go. do what you do.
thanks for everything.
i got it.
are you gonna tell mom?
you took vicodin. [house's face falls. he looks guilty and terrified.] when you came to my hospital room that night you were stoned.
how did i not know? how did i make myself forget for months that you're an addict? my subconscious was trying to tell me you could never get through this without drugs.
it's not about the pills house. it's about what they mean.
no. you don't take vicodin because you're scared. you take it so you won't feel pain. everything you've ever done is to avoid pain <U+0097> drugs sarcasm keeping everybody at arm's length so no one can hurt you.
[sad] pain happens when you care. y-you can't love someone without making yourself open to their problems their fears. and you're not willing to do that.
but you weren't with me not really.
that's not enough.
i don't think you can. [they stare at each other.] you'll choose yourself over everybody else over and over again because that's just who you are. i'm sorry.
i thought i could do this.
good-bye house.
didn't end the relationship
i didn't end it
and i was wrong.
no. but i've thought about it. a lot. and i haven't changed my mind.
i know. but this isn't about what he deserves. when things go wrong i don't want to hope that i'm not alone. i want to know it. with house every time i needed him to step up he's just never gonna be that. it's not his fault. it's who he is. i should have known it. this is my fault.
just keep me posted.
i love him. and i know he loves me. but i just can't
you can't go backwards. i can't fix his problem. i am his problem.
house. we need to talk.
you didn't expect me to say yes to rupturing his aorta did you?
you have no reason to believe this will save his life.
[somewhat pitying] i don't know. i think maybe you're looking for something that can excite you. fill a void. and it's affecting your judgment.
you can't ride that thing in here.
you're still standing on it.
(holding up a piece of paper) or perhaps i am. they apply to wheelchairs and powered scooters only not toys.
i don't care.
for some reason i still don't care.
stop. i'll make an exception for your leg. but next time check with me first.
(opening the folder) i'm not signing this.
it's fraud.
(taking the tin) you realize if i do sign this and you don't get legally married you'll lose your insurance with our carrier?
fine. it's your life. (she signs the form and hands the folder to dominika) i wish you both the best with it.
your potential donation
have an immediate impact on our community. we could extend the hours (she sees the helicopter flying toward her)
no. i just think maybe it would be a better idea to have a tour of the clinic first. it's right this way.
(trying not to be fazed by house's antics and leading the donors toward the clinic) uh we have several patients that are children and we find that it's important to give them the opportunity to play to make the hospital a less intimidating place.
it's only four and he's gonna get rid of it after the wedding.
who cares? other than a janitor sleeping off a bender he's the first person to use it in two weeks.
i know what house is doing. you on the other hand why do you care? he isn't hurting anyone.
i changed my mind.
this room is for patients' families not for doctors trying to defraud the government.
yeah. the chapel still has sanctity for some people.
it's lou and i would have thrown him out too.
that's not my problem.
that's also not my problem. (she turns and walks toward the door calling over her shoulder as she goes) and i want the tv back.
it's okay. i'm just angry at myself. i promised i wouldn't let this get to me. but it got to me.
i wouldn't give house the satisfaction.
yeah normal.
uh i-i'm in meetings all afternoon. try me tomorrow.
you do realize if you take it he'll probably end up firing you again?
and he'll continue mocking and insulting you whatever chance he gets.
no. i'm trying to make you make your own decision and leave me alone. working with house is great. and it sucks. often simultaneously. most people can't work in that environment. question is can you?
ma nishtana? [foreman looks puzzled.] you made it through med school without ever attending a seder? it means why is this night different from all other nights?
if the patient's still alive then push hasn't met shove yet.
then we have to assume he does and she isn't.
house is fine. house is always fine.
not if you do your job.
(to rachel) why aren't you in your bed?
(not believing what she is seeing) what are you watching?
someone better be dying.
sweetie go wait for mommy by the couch okay? go on. (rachel obeys)
any reason why 911 wasn't on the list?
right. (she kneels on the floor next to the tub) are you suicidal?
you couldn't wait till morning; bring your ct scans to an actual surgeon?
or you're just ashamed you've been injecting a drug that hasn't even gone through safety trials. it's never even been in the human body.
(getting up off the floor) i'm taking you to the hospital.
absolutely not!
he was being reckless. sit back honey. (to house) this isn't about making your leg better. it's about making your life better.
why else would you risk your life doing something so stupid?
don't blame our breakup for this. you're not unhappy because of me. you're just unhappy. unhappy people do reckless things.
stop with the pirate talk.
(nodding) of course you showed her that filthy cartoon. what kind of idiot lets a three-year-old watch that?
your heart rate's over 120. you're clammy. i think you're going into shock. are you lightheaded?
we've got to get you into surgery. where is that nurse? rachel let's go find the nurse.
i'm not a surgeon. there's nothing i can do.
you already signed a release. he's gonna do what he needs to do.
house
he'll be fine. close your eyes.
(trying to sound upbeat) well maybe you should write him a letter. (rachel nods) want to do that? okay let's do it.
are we uh almost done here? i have to call my mother get my daughter call the hospital.
no.
not really.
yeah [mirthless chuckle] every moment i spent with him. i was always waiting for something to happen. but this [her face tightens and she shakes her head slightly]
no.
are you asking me to file charges? just give me the paperwork. if greg house steps foot in my hospital again comes anywhere near me i want him thrown in jail.
what's this about?
[to the barista] the usual.
oh i-i'm afraid you have me mixed up with somebody else.
i guess i just have one of those faces. it's nice to meet you.
oh thank god. the i.c.u. isn't being attacked by giant radioactive spiders.
my sweater a coffee mug a half-used bottle of lotion and a dvd of marley & me.
i don't get it.
i meant the box.
i haven't even spoken to you since you hurt yourself.
great. the smart thing to do would be to talk about why you did it. if you don't understand<U+0097>
well i don't want to find out you're wrong by getting another phone call from you in a bloody bathtub.
[sitting on the foot of the bed] i'm just asking you to talk about it. you owe me. [he looks suspicious.] forget about saving your life. you exposed my daughter to that obnoxious pirate cartoon.
i swear to god stay out of my personal life.
huh?
seasonally? or is that just the kite-surfing?
what? like i secretly wish i could alter the laws of the universe change who we are and magically make it work out?
my sarcasm indicated no.
you stood me up.
you're still playing the same petty passive-aggressive games.
you said you were going to change.
i'm expressing my anger. you should try it. right now let's finally have our fight.
no all you've done is pull pranks or have temper tantrums with wilson never me marry mail-order prostitutes make me go to your wedding<U+0097>
you cut open your own leg.
you don't think it was even related? house we've never even had a conversation about our breakup. you are obviously still angry at me. and it's hurting both of us.
i know one conversation isn't gonna solve everything but it is a start. [foreman pulls the curtain open. she turns to him.] it's a privacy curtain.
so. why did i ever ban alcohol from the cafeteria? before i forget there's a brush. tortoise-shell handle natural bristles <U+0097> wasn't in the box. if you could look for it
we don't have to<U+0097>
not for us.
no. i haven't dated anyone since you.
we s-should talk about your leg.
yes. but it's<U+0096>it's <U+0097> i think it's more than that. it's your life your choices.
house talk to me!
no you just parroted back what wilson and i've been saying to you the last few days.
no. [she looks down and touches his leg.] oh you pulled a stitch. house please just talk to me.
i know. i'm sorry.
hi. uh lisa cuddy. nice to meet you. i'm sorry about the other day. i <U+0097> there were some personal things going on in my life and i wasn't at my best.
no. [laughs] on a scale from one to creepy you were maybe mildly unnerving.
