he'll be bored. it's a great visual but it's diagnostically boring. what about post-hair transplant aphasia guy?
oh well we wouldn't want that.
has a good hook.
his first day back might want to flex his sarcasm muscle; maybe we open with one of the weaker pitches.
because he can.
middle-aged man: had hair transplant about 2 months ago--
forget it - brain cancer brain surgery - there's nothing left to diagnose. i would take the other one.
you don't think he had brain cancer?
so if there's no diagnostic issue why are you taking the case?
not to you.
no you haven't.
then why are you taking the case?
the guy had cancer he's a lump; he hasn't been able to touch his wife speak to his kids.
not for you.
no you haven't.
i heard you were watching surgery with a patient's family. talking to a patient's family. it's because of your hallucination isn't it? after you were shot? you chose life; you decided you wanted meaning so you took a case with no mystery. something any doctor could do. a case with no upside except the satisfaction of helping another human being.
and... you felt nothing.
it's like your leg its atrophied. keep working it the feeling will come.
you tried to swap?
you really don't give a crap do you?
yeah.
what we're talking about is the reason you took the case; to help someone.
too bad for you. the reason we crave meaning is because it makes us happy. the first level of happiness is--
i'm not going away. [he immediately follows.]
the fifth level of happiness involves creation. changing lives.
you're saving lives which is tantamount to creating lives but all you're taking away from this is the game. you don't have to listen to them thanking you you don't have to change the cases you take or even how you handle them. you just have to know that you made a difference.
you're fabricating a mystery because you're bored.
you didn't tell the wife it was only a grunt?
the vicodin dulled it in the sober light of day i'm a buzz kill. you're giving false hope to a family that's been wrecked. don't torture them let it go tell the wife it was only a grunt tell her to go home.
the answer's no. cuddy called 30 seconds after you left and said you'd try an end around.
[looks up suddenly.] how bad?
did it go away?
but it went away?
you're 40 something years old you've been running god knows how many miles a day fallen a hundred times off that skateboard and you're shocked to have some soreness?
for vicodin? house people get aching joints cramps they put on an ice pack they take some ibuprofen.
no you don't because you've been stuffing vicodin every 5 minutes since you turned middle age.
don't play me.
i think you want me to feel sorry for you and either do the end around on cuddy or give you the drugs. [he takes his pad of prescription slips and puts it away in a drawer under his desk deliberately to make his point.] either way you get the high you think you need. [house resignedly is about to leave the room.] house your surgery worked you're fine. it's just going to take time for it to feel good.
he's on his way out of here. figure you'd be on your scooter racing down the halls to stab the patient in the neck with cortisol.
no. cuddy you can't tell him.
why did you do it? why did you think he might be right?
medically what made you think he was right?
he got lucky that's all that happened. telling him no was a good thing because next time he won't get lucky he'll kill someone. just because he was right doesn't mean he wasn't wrong.
everybody lies.
ah. where's the sweat and the b.o? you've taken such pride bathing us in your personal musk.
you've taken the stairs every day.
looks like the ketamine treatment might not stick.
we didn't hurt him. the pain isn't <U+0096>
maybe he stops exercising because the giant hole in his leg actually hurts.
you can't tell him. he got lucky; there was no medical <U+0096>
we tell him he was right and we're feeding his addiction. without vicodin he's only got one to focus on.
no it's not going to hurt him. but he could just as easily have killed that patient. we have a tiny window of time here where house may be healthy enough to change and based on that limp the window's closing fast.
of course he's lying.
don't talk about it that way.
plan. sounds like we're conspiring against him.
no you're not.
you want to go for a run?
i want you to run. [he throws house a bottle of vicodin.]
i'm enabling you to exercise. vicodin blocks the pain you get through your rehab muscle strength increases and pain decreases.
you're just like any other patient <U+0096> running away from knowledge that won't make you happy.
you're scared the ketamine treatment's wearing off. that it was just a tortuous window of the good life.
how can you be so sure it isn't just a sore muscle?
you're not always right house. you've proven that lately.
what now?
that doesn't sound like her.
what exactly did cuddy tell you?
something like that. more that if we told you the truth; that you'd solved the case based on absolutely no medical proof that you'd think you were god. and i was worried your wings would melt.
no abnormal nuclei means no leukemia; he a drinker?
which means yes he drinks which gives us a nice mundane explanation for the acellularity.
but your entire view of human nature gets destroyed. [he shrugs.] six of one half a dozen of the other.
hand me the 10% koh.
yup we have. no buds no hyphae.
how's your leg?
how's ezra powell?
hmm that's not what cameron says.
he's not asking you to help him kill himself; he's just asking for help. the disease will kill him.
you've done it before. plenty of times.
[annoyed.] oh give me a break. this has nothing to do with saving a life; you just can't bear the thought of a patient dying before you've been able to figure out why.
[snidely.] worried about meeting your one patient a week quota?
that's funny; it says james wilson what a strange typo.
thank you for coming.
you share stories feelings... toys. you don't share offices.
it was a gift some doctors get those.
[hangs up his lab coat.] you couldn't make cuddy miserable so you're going to make me miserable so i can make cuddy miserable on your behalf?
what makes you think i can make her miserable? [starts rolling up his sleeves.]
ohhh i'm nothing compared to you.
that's a gift from an 11-yr-old patient of mine she and i both knew it was a piece of junk and that's what made her laugh.
she already did.
yeah.
was there a protein in the pleural fluid?
lung biopsies usually come back negative so biopsy a lymph node under the arm.
there's nothing real tricky to it just a biopsy.
this is doctor house your son's doctor.
out of vicodin?
that was sensitive.
hope is all those parents have going for them.
err no cancer... because these aren't lymph cells.
liver cells.
don't you think the restraining order's a little much? he's not actually going to have sex with a 17-yr-old patient.
it might be easier in the long run.
unless you wanna make out?
no no you proactively give him what he wants.
he'll never see it coming. look i'll pay for it myself! what is it? a thousand bucks to carpet a room?
ohhh!
i'm going to read you something. asperger's syndrome is a mild and rare form of autism. it is typically characterized by difficulty establishing friendships and playing with peers trouble accepting conventional social rules and they dislike any change in setting or routine... or broadloom. doesn't say that last part but you get my point.
why do you think he took this case? because he believes these parents? because he wants to help a young boy? he sees himself in this kid and he's trying to help himself. he doesn't want this he needs it.
you're not autistic; you don't even have asperger's. you wish you did it would exempt you from the rules give you freedom absolve you of responsibility let you date 17-yr-olds. but most important it would mean that you're not just a jerk.
that was a 10.
there was a point to it. wendy this is house.
[grimaces at house] why so rude?
it's amazing how you can not only know it's a relationship but that it's a bad relationship based on nothing but... nothing.
i'm not with her not even trying.
[walking towards his office] well as long as it's interesting.
if this is more dating advice
it's pretty nonspecific. could be granulomas could be plaques. what's this? oh oh you stole wendy's personnel file?!
first of all i am not dating her.
she's much too cautious for me. point taken i'll start dating her so i can break up with her and start dating a stripper. you're a miserable jerk who can't stand to be alone.
my marriages were so crappy i was spending all my time with you. your real fear is me having a good relationship.
you don't no. i don't think it's sarcoidosis. [house walks back.]
unfortunately we don't see any way around a biopsy. we'll do all we can to minimize any damage.
the methotrexate isn't showing any effects yet. you could both be <U+0096>
and if you both die you think she'd want that?
it's not in your brain.
she could die before you show the symptoms.
hold on that gives me an idea. you know what could save this couple lots of misdirected sarcasm.
i didn't screw up. i did my job!
no it was to present the patient with his options.
remember when you used to just weave elaborate conspiracy theories about my love life? those were such good times.
sorry i didn't have 15 grand in my loose change jar. what the hell did you do? [he takes a bottle of vicodin out of his pocket and hands it to house.]
the motorcycle was impounded that explains the speeding dui and driving without a license. the fact that you're you explains the illegal possession of narcotics and resisting arrest.
what happened?!
does cuddy know?
til proven guilty.
better get yourself a lawyer.
you know what they say about the lawyer who has himself as a client?
since i was 5? and who are we talking about? you know just in case you need me to chime in and tell you you're a lunatic at some point.
yeah you definitely better get to the bottom of that. i heard cuddy gave you the name of a lawyer.
from what i hear the patient reminds her of you not me. call the lawyer.
or a lump of something else you're a lunatic call the lawyer.
very mature.
selectively rational? stubborn? uncooperative? maybe you ought to check his leg.
nothing.
he called to see if i prescribed the pills i said yes that's all.
what happened?
last i checked pharmacies are still open when it rained.
oh it's my fault.
well i'm not the one who put a thermometer in his rectum. so stop yelling at me and start talking to your lawyer.
i know he can be a real ass and he has no problem lying when it serves him but he's not lying about the pain. he needs the medication which is why i prescribed it. all of it.
[he runs his fingers through his hair.] err... i don't know what else to tell you.
[without looking.] this is getting if it's got my name on it it's a legit script.
yeah.
no i'm just i hadn't thought about it i do sign my name differently sometimes.
yeah i guess i get bored signing it the same way you know what they say about doctor's handwriting.
[nods.] i am sure. absolutely.
ok no problem.
what're you doing down here? thought you usually have lunch with coma guy.
[upset loud.] you stole my prescription pad and you forged my name!
i lied! he'd have put you away for ten years; after they took your license to practice medicine.
[gesturing wildly.] i lied! to the cops!
yeah tritter's just playing. he's gonna see how clever you are and then just walk away.
here's another way to look at it. having forced me to lie to the police your first concern is securing your drug-connection!
dr. house was just--
what're you doing?
ahh! rumor in the cafeteria was caustic guy was waking up coma guy.
so what happened?
he doesn't wanna talk about his son?
brain issue? he was asphyxiated. spent ten years as asparagus. who knows what damage is in there?
only in your world would that be simple.
maybe your father's feelings were conditional not everyone's--
terms you would understand. we have an evolutionary incentive to sacrifice for our offspring our tribe our friends. keep them safe.
i'm not doing you any favors.
this is like trying to control the weather but i'd prefer if you didn't eat in the car. just had it detailed.
oh the hell he does!
aside from the fact he just woke up from a vegetative state; the guy doesn't have a license.
i'm coming.
get in the right lane for 295. and pass me the twizzlers.
i'm curious.
why would a man's first instinct to be to drive away from the only family he's got?
so sign my name. you don't need a doctor you need a pen.
[pissed.] are you out of your mind?
we can still turn around and go back to princeto...
[beat.] if your son does have mercury poisoning there's a good chance he'll respond to the chelation. you might be able to have a few minutes with him before you lapse...
[to gabe.] your behavior isn't normal.
what could he have done that you won't forgive after ten years when this is your last chance?
house told you that drinking had damaged your son's liver.
but you didn't hear him say that 'til after we left the hospital. so why did you leave?
[into the phone.] i understand it's a french chef. but i'm sure he can handle this. need a twelve-inch italian roll oregano vinegar. no not balsamic vinegar. oregano vinegar.
[cradling phone.] if you each had one day to live you'd look for one last meal and house would look for one last answer.
[into the phone.] no can you just send the ingredients up here and i'll make it myself.
no you're wasting a question. i have a better one.
[serious.] why steal my pad?
[shaking his head.] no i mean why my pad? foreman cameron and chase's pads are just as convenient. but their association with you is involuntary. they're employees. i associate with you through choice and any relationship that involves choice you have to see how far you can push before it breaks.
and one day our friendship will break and it'll just prove your theory that relationships are conditional and you don't need human connection or deserve it or whatever goes on in that rat maze of your brain.
[into phone pained] does anyone in the kitchen know the hoagie shop that used to be on st. james' place?
[into phone hopefully.] hi you guys deliver? [beat.] lemme put it this way. if you deliver there'll be a hundred dollar tip in it for you.
[into the phone.] excellent! [to gabe.] victory.
you're a disappointment.
you act as though you don't need anybody. you just blame your son for what happened.
then what are we doing here? why aren't you with him?
it wouldn't have affected his liver.
and it could go on being fine for the rest of your life.
[standing.] well you woke him up once. maybe someone will come up with some other answer. we've both seen breakthroughs no one expected. [to gabe.] and ragged red fiber's treatable but not curable. even if he gets your heart there's no guarantee.
[firm yet unsure.] no.
hi.
[clearly enunciating.] i'm dr. wilson.
i'm from princeton.
so uhh do you like to swing?
well if you change your mind i'm in...
house! house!
is it room 622? 642?
[to mrs. schaeffer.] it's 622.
[explaining.] alibi.
that it proved people can love unconditionally and you can tell yourself it's not true but you'll just end up in a hotel room in atlantic city asking someone to cut your heart out?
it was. did you know tritter was talking to your team while we were away?
which one of them told you?
i don't think my enabling is anything you should be complaining about.
[into the phone] yes my name is dr. james wilson account number 835687. the atm says i've got zero [beat.] what does that mean? a hold? [beat.] yeah okay. thanks.
[sighs.] my accounts have been frozen as part of a police investigation.
no they can keep it 'til i agree to help send you prison for ten years. [sighs again.] you're getting dinner.
i was not parked illegally. i... i live here.
tritter towed my car. he's frozen my assets. he's on a crusade.
[upset] i'm not pablo escobar's evil henchman cruising into miami in a cigarette boat. i'm a physician who prescribed vicodin to a pain patient.
[exasperated] he's in chronic pain. this is obviously an abuse of power.
[with restraint] patients build up a tolerance over the years...
what are we like role-playing?
michael told me you could help me get my car back.
[mock-gratitude] thanks. usually people feel helpless in these situations.
[irritably] buses suck.
it's a hostage! tritter wants me to testify against house.
is that a question or an order?
which will cost this hospital. relax. i'm not gonna mess with your precious resource. i told my lawyer to tell tritter to go to hell. marko!!
[loudly] why are all my prescriptions getting bounced back?!
in my car. my patients on the other hand are here and need their medications.
the dea just revoked my prescription privileges.
[deadpan] yes well that's why i'm here. this is a disaster for you.
i'm not gonna let him squeeze my patients.
i'm gonna use your team to do my prescribing till this is straightened out.
hep-a?
i need one of you.
[reading from a file] daniel silvers. prostate cancer. needs filgrastim two weeks' supply. [opens another file] andrea donovan. breast cancer. just needs her refill of megestrol.
you're not writing.
well you could phone them in but eventually... yeah. probably somebody's gonna want something written down.
i have. i've diagnosed them and everything.
just my diagnosis.
[getting upset] they're my patients. my prescriptions.
[encouragingly] you're doing so much better on the anastrazole beth. i'm reluctant to make a change.
well as you know this is a teaching hospital.
no. no. she's just consulting regarding my... prescriptions.
[defensively] no!
i have a patient. i need...
so's mine.
i'm referring my patients to other oncologists. i'm shutting down my practice.
[yelling angrily] i can't just ask my patients to wait because dr. cameron's boss won't let her come out and play!
[yelling louder] three hours!
[loudly] not this time!
oh so now's a better time for me to have my life taken away if it fits into your schedule better?
[almost screaming out in rage] you committed a crime!!
yes!! yes! do something! go in! show some remorse! tell tritter you'll get some help!
[calming down just about] house get out of here. get out of here.
[laughs humourlessly] you already feel guilty. your serious shoulder pain... isn't coming from your cane it's coming from your conscience. and that used to be enough. despite all your smart-ass remarks i knew you gave a damn. this time [shrugs] you were either gonna help me through this or you weren't. i got my answer.
i work here.
[applying peanut butter on the slice] i've clinic hours.
you know before lenny bruce died of the drug overdose...
he was arrested on obscenity charges. went through a series of arrests and trials because he just couldn't stop challenging the police.
[now applying jelly] he became obsessed with his own legal problems and his act turned into long humourless rants about fascist cops and the violation of his rights.
you okay?
uhm what i meant by are you okay is what the hell did house do?
what did he say?
seriously? [beat] what did he say?
well i've seen house be rude to you a thousand times but i've never seen it get it you.
and you're this upset because... you think he's right?
i'm sorry. you didn't fail. those were physical events.
[shrugging] that's normal. that's...
[reasoning] she needed reassurance.
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa! [sighs] well i see what you mean about house poking the right spot.
[deadpan] so what's new?
it's happened before.
chase you solved one. you helped a patient. that better be enough for you. beckett was going to call his play waiting for house's approval but thought it was too grim.
[beat] i'm gonna need thirty pieces of silver.
detective tritter and i... we worked out a deal. [he moves away so house can set his stuff down on his chair]
i told him i didn't write those prescriptions. [house freezes while taking off his coat]
[surprised at house's reaction] no jail time.
no sanctions to the medical board.
i did this to help you.
you punched out an employee; you nearly cut a little girl in half because you were too strung out--
house! just give me a minute. you're afraid of the pain.
[holds up a hand and gives house a look] you can still have pain meds in rehab - tramadol gabapentin--
they will once you're weaned off the vicodin.
fine run to cuddy. you don't think she's going to support me on this?
i didn't rat him out i got him a deal.
he will if we--
i made the deal it's done you can either keep yelling at me or you can help me avoid a complete disaster.
when a child misbehaves what do you do? you take away something he loves.
and we tell him the only way to get the pills back is to take the deal.
that's the point.
what choice do we have?
could be a hepatoma.
it's not unheard of.
cameron got a moment? [she pauses and he walks out with her]
what exactly is your problem with me?
so this is all about the case?
i made this deal to help him.
this is not about my practice this is not about my car. i gave both of them up to help house and i would have gone on without them if he hadn't almost maimed that little girl and if he hadn't punched out chase.
of course not but it's right.
because he's my friend it's... obviously complicated--
it was the right thing to do.
house you've tanned.
i'm sure he gave you that opinion simply because he was worried about the patient?
you needed an organ he needed a fix. he'd have made up any story for a pill you didn't give him anything did you?
sometimes doctors have to do things that make people uncomfortable to help them. [he looks over at foreman]
foreman. [foreman bends down to check] you haven't given her the sedative.
check her airway.
diabetic ketoacidosis.
exocrine function's normal. hodgkin's lymphoma - it's a systemic cancer which her dwarfism predisposes her to.
cancer fits.
that'll spike her blood sugar and put her back in a coma. it's much safer to run a double-stranded dna test.
because of your daughter's dwarfism we've had to pick a higher entry point for the lumbar puncture which increases the risk.
in the interest of time we think it's best to proceed on both fronts.
we have several theories.
he's... he had to go home sick.
oh he's not--
he is. [she signs the consent form]
yeah clearly the drugs have no hold on you.
and you'll go to jail.
and you'll go to jail.
then you should go to rehab. i have a patient. [he walks off]
i'm so sorry for your loss. you know it's little solace but he went without pain.
house?
i'm sorry he's sick--
[gets up and faces house] trying to embarrass me in front of a grieving widow crosses lines that even--
house you didn't come in here just to embarrass me you could do that anytime. [he reaches into house's coat pocket and takes out a bottle full of pills] stealing oxy from a dead man yeah you don't have a problem.
how's the girl?
house was right?
i thought we could handle this. still's disease it never crossed my mind.
[laughs] i feel like a mob informant.
i can't testify. drug addicts hurt the people around them with their habit.
he saves lives people that no one else can save and no matter how much of an ass he is statistically house is a positive force in the universe. pills let him do that.
i won't testify against him.
again statistically better me than him.
cancer's still on the table.
leukaemia we need to do a bone marrow biopsy.
unless a small clot led to a pulmonary infarction.
autoimmune diseases respond to steroids which we've given her.
why aren't you detoxing?
what--
did you just take a pill?
[with his rather one-track mind] how many pills have you taken?
and something's wrong with her pituitary gland and based on her size it's been wrong for a while.
obviously you think it's something else.
abigail agreed-- [he waits for house to pull down his headphones] abigail agreed to take growth hormone.
your non-dwarf dwarf patient.
christmas eve.
you've plans for tonight?
thought you might prefer people over pills.
house? [more knocking] are you okay? i called 3 times.
we are just trying to understand what this is.
how you doing?
see this big fancy wing? it was built because this program works
i don't even know what that means.
[getting annoyed] meaning takes time. it takes work.
you've been here for two days! talk about wallowing in it. we all get it we know how much pain you have. you're here to deal with that and get on with your life.
you're a coward house. you find fault in everybody because you're afraid to look at yourself.
i got you something.
i figured it might help make a good impression on the judge.
[surprised] is this.... an apology?
not at all it's just so... unfamiliar. please keep going.
[pulls an envelope out of he pocket house gets up to the bars] your buprenorphine. [house takes envelope and starts to open it]
voldemort why? what difference does it...
[shocked] that's vicodin he's been slipping you vicodin?
the whole time?
nothing's changed?
the apology you didn't need to do that to make this work.
[smiling] goodnight house i'll see ya tomorrow. [walks away]
why are you here?
it's a jogging park. you're not jogging. you can't jog.
so... what do you watch for?
he's not jogging he's trolling.
how long are you goin' to stay here?
she's waiting for your answer?
[beat] why do you care what you say?
it's a simple question. has your life sucked? tell her the truth. tell her you were shot. tell her...
she's looking to connect with you and that's what's scaring the hell out of you. tell her the truth.
[thinks] are we role-playing? am i you? i don't wanna be you.
it's not science at all. tell her the truth.
[more interested in what house is saying than the game] then why did you...?
you gonna follow up with her?
ah yes if it isn't dr. ironside.
that's my name. don't wear it out. (house starts to stand) uh uh.
(stepping away from the urinal buckling his belt) reasonable people don't debate the relative merits of their handicaps.
last i checked pig-headedness was not the eighth heavenly virtue.
give it up. you're demeaning yourself.
don't stand up in there. i'm watching your feet. (leaves)
what? (peels back blanket. lots of blood around groin)
you're still in that thing.
you know even if you manage not to get struck down by a bolt of lightening and make it a week cuddy's not going to give you the space. she can't.
yes. and that rule outranks the americans with disabilities act. you think you've got logic on your side. but whitner's got the legal system. and legal beats logic every time. just ask oj.
i am?
so you're doing this even though you know you've got no legal leg to stand on.
how's it going?
hmm. about an eight.
i am so tired of this. did you know that the new nurse from cardiology is sleeping with that weird lawyer from the board?
he has eleven fingers?
the nurse used to be a man.
but we can't talk about that.
we were supposed to talk about that. i came here to talk about that. but on the way up i ran into cameron. you've got a cipa patient.
oh it's way more interesting. but instead i've got to be your damn conscience. i'm tired of being your conscience. i don't enjoy being your conscience.
you're studying her....
which you found out after you took her on.
i don't think that metaphor was designed to actually warn cats. you don't care about her illness you care about cipa. which means your focus is going to be on getting your answer not hers.
what do you think you're going to figure out? you think her lack of pain is somehow the answer to your pain.
(to fellows) is he asking for a spinal nerve?
give us a minute? (fellows leave closing door) did you know they recently found a protein that speeds up nerve growth? fascinating stuff. if you put that protein with the insulation from a spinal nerve you could grow your own little garden. if that spinal nerve
you'd have to be on immunosupressors for life. risk of infection. shorter life span
usually jealousy expresses itself by trying to destroy what someone has. you're more ambitious. you actually want to change medical fact to get this thing you
you're risking your patient's life.
to serve their patient health not their own.
are you sure? are you sure that you're the right one to be making this call.
trying to get a couple of patients into a drug trial. paperwork's due tomorrow. why are you here?
no i meant here. in my office.
very pedestrian.
the immunoglobulin e level's borderline. if you want to be one hundred percent sure check the bone marrow.
and he's cool with that?
ho ho.
is it possible for you to just watch me eat. or do you get some primeval thrill out of beating the other hunters to the food. (house freezes for a moment. he throws the sandwich and leaves.) see you later.
(in doorway with house) you could ask her for the spinal nerve.
she owes you.
i'm just saying if you wanna do it do it while her b12 is still low. guilt can be your friend. (they walk down the hall) breakfast?
what's up?
yeah he's an oncologist. what's up?
brain cancer. [beat] what's going on?
depends on how far along the cancer is. what kind how agressive? [shrugs slightly]
he's no different than anyone else with cancer. once you tell then every conversation is about that.
yeah. i-i'm late for a...
[re: the song] pretty.
[impatient] it's good.
i could set up a tower on the roof during a lightning storm. help you switch brains with your patient. then you would be the brilliant pianist and he would be the doctor hiding brain cancer from his friend.
you need to talk about it.
at least let me look at your medical file.
[quickly] no one. and cancer isn't nothing.
[unhappily] why didn't you come to me?
stein's in africa for the next six months.
no i didn't.
[giving in] i... only told cameron.
heard patrick's hemispherectomy went well.
how depressed are you?!
you faked... cancer.
are you curious about heroin?
you made people think that you were going to die!
it's ironic.
depression in cancer patients. 's not as common as you think. it's not the dying that gets to people. it's the dying alone. the patients with family with friends... they tend to do okay. you don't have cancer. you do have people who give a damn. so what do you do? [laughs again] you fake the cancer then push the people who care away.
[smiles wrily] start small house. take a chance. maybe something that doesn't involve sticking stuff in your brain. pizza with a friend. [points to himself with a bow] a movie. something.
that's amazing.
it's not?
the right circumstance being their agreement to bill you on the same credit card.
just because you don't understand it doesn't mean it can't happen.
[flushes with his elbow.] well maybe you didn't dream about this guy specifically.
no you imagined some generic marine then you placed his face in the dream after you saw the picture. [starts to wash his hands.] sort of a coincidence mixed with a little d<e9>ja vu.
fine you've known him since cub scouts. the more interesting question isn't what you dreamed but why? [house starts washing his hands as well.] i'm guessing you're longing for either a renewed relationship with your dad or a new relationship with one of the village people.
i thought your dad was in the marines?
actually he's only in the navy when they sang in the navy. the rest of the time he's just in generic fatigues. [house stares at him.] what? you brought it up! [house starts to walk out.] you didn't flush.
the antibiotics should at least relieve the infection which will reduce the odour and taste in your mouth.
all right you're going to feel a little burn. [sticks the needle into john's face.]
well if it's parotid cancer it's very treatable if diagnosed early. [stops poking john's face and puts the needle down.]
we'll know more after the test. [grabs a much bigger needle.]
biopsy's inconclusive. i'm going to do a sialogram while we wait for the results from the additional blood work.
well if the cancer hasn't spread.
i just wrote you a prescription.
no you don't. you figured out where you met your marine?
you can't remember him can you?
so stop taking the vicodin.
why don't you go to sleep?
maybe you'll dream about him again and maybe he'll give you an address.
i read that rem sleep is the brain's way of working out problems.
yea you lied because you want to avoid talking about your obsession.
why don't you just ask him?
you'd be dead.
you'd be in agony.
ok this time you're going to feel a little pressure i'm inserting the contrast material.
sure. [nods to the nurse who turns it up.] looks pretty good so far.
can you hear it now? john? [starts to yell.] john? john can you hear me? [gets no reaction.]
still no... relief?
if the pills didn't work you may need a catheter.
[pulls out the ct scan and puts it on the light board.] he's got cancer all right but it's not in his salivary glands it's in his brain. [house gets up and walks over to look at the scans.] and it's bad at least 6 tumours maybe more. he lost his hearing his sight's probably next.
maybe they didn't miss them just mixed them up. switched his films with another patient's by mistake.
this poor sergeant is going to be dead by the end of the week.
about what?
[loudly.] you have them researching your dream?
this poor guy's brain is riddled with tumours and you're checking his credit report? [to the ducklings.] c'mon i need you guys. [starts to walk out ducklings follow.]
to do my job.
he is now. go home and go to sleep maybe you'll dream the cure to late stage brain cancer.
all right ready whenever you are.
yea she's in the right place. go 10 millimetres above the acpc line on the z-axis.
are you sure you got the gantry angle right?
i saw the tumours. there was no mix up.
i told you i saw...
john john calm down. we didn't even operate. [to the nurse.] would this be a usual effect?
could be an infection and cancer. neoplastic syndrome could depress his immune system and cause the other symptoms.
and what are you going to base your theory on? his favourite restaurants?
got it we're all idiots what's your theory?
why?
wait you can't go home now.
house he needs your help.
oh looks like solving the case solved your other problem.
you cathed yourself?
of course just a minor spasm in a muscle you've been using multiple times a day without any problem for the past 45 years. not a major side effect caused by the overuse of a particular narcotic painkiller.
[flushes with his elbow.] so no reason to think about cutting back on your use of that particular pill.
you really got the answer in your sleep?
pulmonary edema?
there's a reason we don't give multiple courses of corticosteroids.
it's time to terminate.
look at her. she didn't want to be an incubator for a dead baby but that's what you've done.
have you spoken to the family?
well he's biased.
house wants to terminate.
he wouldn't share your pain. he'd be objective.
he'd terminate.
there is no bigger issue. she needs her lungs.
yeah except that room can't breathe without that vase.
and what were you doing when you fainted?
have you banged your head recently?
is this a motion-sickness patch?
oops. scopolamine can cause dizziness and blurred vision. [starts to write] you probably hit your head when you fell and that caused the blackout.
every drug has a side-effect. but it might be a good idea to keep your eye on her for the next few hours. make sure she's okay.
we just don't like people to be alone after they leave here?
i got a seizure! code cart!
i have no idea.
where's house?!
where did you travel?
[skeptically] really? is this her artwork?
where were you a little drunk?
did you drink the water? eat salads? any raw foods?
[shaking his head] and...?
[oh brother] did you have sex? [looks like he'll be surprised if she says no.]
[unsure] uhhh... it's... possible.
[sighing] i'll put her back on the patch. what else?
i think i'm starting to feel sorry for house. [to cameron] get a tox screen chem 20 std panel blood cultures. [to foreman] then you run a ct. [to chase] and you check her house.
please.
what'd you find?
two more seizures in the last two hours.
i'm an idiot. she's exposed herself to so much crap i just assumed it was a... zebra. it's breast cancer.
it's not. but the inflammation caused by the paraneoplastic syndrome caused by the cancer can be reduced by anticholinergics.
oh okay.
sure.
um listen...
are you close?
[looks over his shoulder into fran's room] she needs a mammogram.
i know i'm throwing a lot at you. she just has no family in town. and i really think she could use a friend right now.
blindness in her right eye indicates it's not breast cancer. it's likely neurological...
huh... [takes a seat then] you should go.
that's not your job.
might be better to play it safe to start. do an lp.
the scopolamine patch was masking the effects of the poison. you'll have to stay here for a few more days but after that you should be fine.
and your hair.
[into phone] hi robin? this is um uhh dr. wilson f-fran's doctor. james. [beat] it was a toxin. we caught it on time and she's gonna be fine. [beat] yeah it is. [beat] uh listen i was just wondering if you were coming back in again to visit.
oh i didn't know you were seeing a patient.
what you usually do - hiding from cuddy.
sure want me to pick you up?
you said two tickets.
i really shouldn't...
[hesitating.] why don't you want to go with me?
so why are you giving them to me?
[looks at what the play is.] all right. [takes the tickets and leaves.]
[looks at house.] fries?
no you only take women to plays for that reason. that's your theory.
she's a friend.
it is possible to have a friend of the opposite sex without...
yes i slept with her.
no.
[quietly.] yes i did.
no. you've got a problem house.
your 6-year-old patient?
you were right.
great. cuddy.
no no no. she wants to see me naked. she sent me flowers.
there's a card.
[pulls out the card and shows house.] lets do it again. soon. x x. lisa. xs are the kisses right?
no no xs are definitely the kisses. soon is its own sentence. [sees cuddy in the clinic.] i got to go. [walks off quickly.]
yeah i think so.
no not yet! [takes his hands off his face.] i don't know what to say.
i'm not sure what that is. i... i can't stop thinking about her.
maybe she's right maybe... maybe this is worth exploring?
she sent me flowers! how do i do this? what do i say?
[thinks.] i'm not going to say anything. i'm just going to walk into her office and i'm going to kiss her. [slaps his hand as if to say and that's that.']
yeah. i mean i'll either get a girlfriend or get fired. [looks at house he doesn't say anything.] ok... yea... ok... [gets up and leaves house almost bursts out laughing while wilson is on his way out. once wilson is gone he goes to take a sip of his coffee. suddenly wilson bursts back in pointing at him] you you you! you were going to let me do that?!
you sent those flowers to me!
no! i don't!
[sighs.] you're right.
no. [house smiles.] you're a jerk. [wilson leaves.]
night house.
i am no longer paying alimony; she wanted her independence so she got her realtor's license.
market's doing badly she's moving into a condo.
she wants me to take hector.
dog.
we got him on our honeymoon so i'm like other parent. but i can't take him! my hotel doesn't allow dogs besides i'm always here.
oh you okay.
and you didn't believe her so you bribed a janitor broke into her computer checked her appointments <U+0096>
what would you have learned if she'd said yes?
no. i'm not getting sucked into the vortex of your insanity again. don't pass me notes in class don't tell me to ask her to the prom <U+0096>
i'll consider that after i take her to the hockney exhibit. on thursday. see she is busy. it's not a date. [house stares at him.] she enjoyed the play. i enjoyed her enjoying the play. the woman works hard it's nice to see her relax.
i'm keeping the receipts for tax purposes.
no. i don't know what happened.
oh the hockney exhibit finished on april 20th i thought it was may 20th. okay my bad. this is not somewhere i'd bring someone on a date. not that this is a date obviously. i was just thinking he's doing landscapes on multiple canvases now and they're kind of peaceful and you're always busy and
are you keeping us here to torture me? [he looks closer at the art.] is that a bicycle pump?
bonnie called last night to talk about the dog. your name came up.
she's the worst realtor in new jersey. what is this escalation? i go out with cuddy you hook up with my ex? i don't even know what that's designed to do.
by condo shopping thank you.
yes i was worried there was no way to stop that train.
wait to stop the train? [house nods.] bonnie said [quietly] i'm bad in bed?
i told her you were wasting her time by the way.
you okay?
it's not typical.
first of all stop thinking you can minimize the hurt. a lot of people are afraid of the word dying' <U+0096> if you pussyfoot around it she's not going to read your mind.
no it's not. when you look in her face you're going to feel the instinct to temporize. crush it.
then wait. give her time to process the news. let her know you'll be with her through all of it. wait till she's done thinking until you think it's appropriate then maybe you can touch her put your hand on her arm like this let her know that she's still connected to another human being.
you're freaking out.
give her what she needs. what she doesn't need is a doctor who's not there with her because he made the wrong call. you are freaking out. you should be freaking out.
let her see it.
i got your consent.
what?
she died from a simple staph infection?
i'll be outside.
what'd you tell him?
you wanna get something to eat? [they get into the elevator.]
let your brother rest up while we take some of your marrow.
you don't need to be in an isolation room but i pulled some strings so you could be next door to your brother.
well you only have to be here overnight but you do have to take it easy for a little bit.
i know. it's okay. musta been a drag. we just had to make sure you weren't exposed to any bugs. because your healthy bone marrow is what's gonna cure your brother's leukemia--
he's got one of ten thousand possible infections. even if it's just the common cold i do the transplant he kills his brother.
radiation obliterated his immune system. even in a clean room he's only got... four maybe five days left.
they're african-american. it makes it nearly impossible to find a full match.
he's not dead.
hector's my dog. he's about seventeen.
he could get quite ill. this certainly won't be a pleasant experience for anyone but it's our onl...
it's a little more complicated than that. we'll also be doing leukopheresis. we run matty's blood through a machine that filters out his white blood cells.
we'll pump the white blood cells back as soon as we have a diagnosis.
then we should be able to cure the infection in time to do the transplant.
[sighing] this is your family. it needs to be your decision.
it was a mistake every time. give it a break. they said yes.
[arguing] i treat patients for months maybe years not weeks like you.
if they don't trust me i can't do my job.
you should write greeting cards.
at least it would've been their choice.
could work.
it is better than a dead brother.
it is if he likes his brother.
the parents don't.
they made his cold worse.
we should call child services and have them appoint a guardian for matty.
due to the valve replacement matty will have to be on blood thinners to prevent potential clots.
forever. he couldn't participate in contact sports because of the risk of haemorrhage.
i'm afraid finding a viable new donor isn't something we can realistically depend on.
you should protect your family as a whole. you should do the surgery.
[quietly] shut up.
i did exactly what cuddy told us not to do.
i also believe in patients making their own choices.
by that logic a sociopath would make the best patient advocate in the world.
[into phone] i didn't do the surgery.
[into phone] we biopsied a piece before we started cutting.
[into phone] we didn't replace the valve because the growth was fibrous tissue. it wasn't infectious. we gotta be wrong about...
[from phone] what? you know what's wrong with matty?
[into phone] what are you talking about?
[into phone humouring house] is he alive?
how did we miss this?
[hopeful] autoimmune diseases aren't passed along in bone marrow. he can still donate. we
it's one in the morning.
how exactly does a dog unscrew a bottle of pills?
it requires an opposable thumb.
on the floor?
he has arthritis.
not me this time.
it's either that or we start randomly testing matty for infections. i know you hate the word random.
a partial match transplant is extremely dangerous...
matty is a perfect match. just give us a little more time to figure out...
dr. house is the best diagnostician...
i don't know.
yes but the chances of complications from a mismatch are...
foreman screwed us.
[defensive] once foreman got his mitts on them there was no way...
you gotta to talk to him.
[angry] he undercut us and he may have cost that kid his life!
why am i meeting you here?
so that's it. you call me a coward life goes on.
[nods softly] okay.
[shrugs] yes you did.
yes you did. you're pathetic.
why don't you buy your cane in a medical supply store like a normal cripple?
blood counts?
schistocytes on the smear?
or the infection's doing it.
and if it's the infection?
increase his dosage of methylprednisolone.
we're done with nick?
do you see any other way?
[slowly and expressive] the infection is decimating matty's bone marrow. but... if we give that marrow to nick his symptoms could let us diagnose matty.
nick's graft vs. host is not responding to medication.
[nods somberly] you should let us do this.
[wearily] he's right. it's worth a shot.
negative for amoebas. house called you timid.
to him there is nothing worse. he's gonna fire you.
better than zero. you don't care if you get fired?
you gotta know.
either you care about your job or you don't.
if you care you fight to keep it. if you don't you quit. [finally getting back to matty's case] i thought they lived in the suburbs.
they've got a water pump?
they're calming down. i think it has something to do with both their kids being alive awake and eating. the marrow transplant took.
you should talk to him.
hey if you're ashamed of him you can tell him that.
how many hours a day do you have to spend with someone before they're basically family?
i'm just asking you to have an adult conversation to let him know...
[sighing] have you killed hector yet?
oh. he's quiet. he's... [recognizes the new chewtoy] is that my stethoscope?
listen bonnie joined her home owners' association and staged a coup. pets are now allowed. if you want to keep him she wants a new puppy anyway. she'll understand.
you're sure?
[turns to hector] come on boy.
well i use a g.
[stops writing.] i'm sorry.
[rolls his eyes.] right. he give a reason?
you don't want to end up like you.
with what?
my heart's fine i was up late. you're just deflecting having a conversation about foreman.
either you're lying or you don't really think he's leaving or you just jumped right to acceptance. [house yawns.]
you could try bargaining with him give him a raise.
you called me.
[suspicious.] how did you walk with the cane and the two coffees?
because it's either that or accept the fact that you've done something nice. and then i have to deal with the horsemen and the rain of fire and the end of days.
or worse.
i take it you've met a hot nutritionist.
you asked for a date while your finger was in her boyfriend?
no no. no way. [house pulls out a piece of paper and hands it to wilson.] this is an employment application. she doesn't want to go out with you she's looking for a job. oh god. she's 26.
have you spoken to foreman?
you're going to lose him.
[sticks down the label. talking quickly.] are you really going to leave? where you going? you lined up interviews yet?
you're pissed at house! i get it you're symbolicating killing him. [foreman raises an eyebrow.] symbolicating? what? symbolacolating. gosh that's a hard word.
hey i'm not the one sym i'm not the one sym i'm not the one pretending to kill someone what would it take for you to stay? is it money? he wants you to stay!
if i said he said that would that make a difference? [phone starts to ring wilson picks it up immediately before it finishes the first ring.]
[on the phone.] hello? [looks at his watch.] i'm leaving now. [hangs up the phone gets up and starts to leave.] i'm late for... a breast thing. you know he wants you. you know he's good. you know he can make you good. i don't know what i'm saying. you don't i don't you know what i'm saying and you know i'm right. i got to go.
[talking extremely quickly.] sorry it took me so long to get down here i'm dr wilson i guess dr stein's gone don't worry about it. i'll talk to him when we're done.
well with your medical history you don't want to take any chances. [looks at the scans and has great difficulty getting a glove on.] i can't seem to put on my gloves today. it's weird. [laughs. eventually gets the glove on.] ok. well that's fine. one's enough. well lets have a look. [starts to feel her breasts.]
this is nothing. you should see me when we're busy. [winks. she gives him a weird look.] i just winked at you. i just i've never winked at a patient in my life i have no id i am so sorry. i have no idea what i was thinking.
no it's not. i was hitting on you i mean i wasn't-i wasn't consciously hitting on you but i what else could you think?
yeah that would make sense on the other hand i [starts breathing heavily.] i feel like my hearts going to explode. [sits down.]
i feel a little sweaty. am i sweating?
i can't i can't [realises his glove is on takes it off.] i put on gloves to do a breast exam. perfect. [takes the heart monitor thing from her finger.] sorry. [puts it on his finger and watches the screen. continues to breathe heavily. the monitor starts beeping. he stands up as he looks at it.] it's 185! 185! [confused.] 185? [thinks suddenly realises what is happening.] excuse me i have to go kill someone. [leaves.]
you dosed me!
[walks in] you could have killed me!
you don't know my medical history! i c-c-c-c... i could've... you could've given me a heart attack.
aha! you tried to kill me.
i'm not on antidepressants i'm on speeeeeed!
it's not a secret. house it's-it's... it's personal!
it's personal!
[holds out his hands.] this is why i take them.
oh don't act hurt. you don't care!
you wouldn't take them! you'd rather od on vicodin or stick electrodes in your head because you can say you did it to get high. the only reason to take antidepressants is because you're depressed. you you have to admit that you're depressed.
are you going to admit that...
haha. [shakes his head]... well i can't give you my prescription. you've got to meet with a psychiatrist. you need a whole work up. [breathing heavily.] give me a vicodin so i don't stroke. [house chucks him the bottle. wilson pops a pill. and grabs a coffee cup off the side table. ]
[startled.] ahh.
if you can't shut up at least talk quietly.
[sits up.] you were happy?
i told you. you got to be checked out by...
they worked! you've been smiling relaxed happy!
house was happy.
happy.
oh right. a dying girl mistook hazy for happy because dying people see happiness everywhere. she's miserable.
of course she was miserable you just told her she was...
why would i...?
i want foreman to leave.
house has to realize he needs someone who stands up to him. cameron's in love with him chase is afraid of him and i enable him. house needs limits.
you authorize magic mushrooms. house is a six-year-old who thinks he's better off without parents. a few tummy aches after dinners of ice cream and ketchup might do him some good.
[looking at her] you're paranoid. [smiles]
[seeming flustered] hi.
where are you going?
[interrupts] cuddy thinks i sabotaged foreman's interview. she's gonna fire me.
she said it was unprofessional and...
[loses the act] you so would have fallen for that three years ago.
cuddy's logic was foreman's valuable to house. i care about house. ergo i would do anything to save him.
i don't believe you.
[nods yet...] you're lying.
you don't answer your phone anymore.
it's cuddy.
and since you're not taking her calls i am. your patient's been waiting for hours.
no she risked her life.
the woman has 10 different things wrong with her including pains all over her body. [sits down opposite house] admittedly not as interesting as staring uselessly at foreman.
what are you going to do to keep him?
he really is going to leave you know that right?
so what are you going to do?
because he thinks you're a cold-hearted bastard without any regard for anyone but yourself.
you need to show him that you really do care.
house you play a guitar you got in 9th grade.
you're living in the same apartment for 15 years. you drive a 10-yr-old car you are not good with change.
he's not afraid to be you he's afraid to be who he thinks you are. [he walks off and leaves house alone.]
[bursts in] what the hell is wrong with you? you fired chase?
i told you to show foreman you have a heart how does that translate to you being a bastard?
cut the crap.
geez 47 i hope my colon looks better than this guy's. isolating the first transverse...
not a good time house.
human error.
electrical instability?
ischemia?
human error is the only other possible--
[he finally turns around to face house on the monitor] of course it's human error you don't want foreman to have made a mistake because then you'd have to mock him and that would put a crimp in your brilliant plan of keeping him by having a breakdown and firing chase.
you mean her heart stopping?
house i'm busy. you have a team run your differential with them.
then you shouldn't have fired chase. change is fun huh?
[enters] i hear you got another satisfied customer.
[warningly] house.
nice try.
