wilson's back. you gonna say —
on a video game you stole from the pediatric ward?
when was the last time you talked to him?
we know who she is.
i'll give it to segal.
house has more important things to do.
bye.
talk to him.
mocking him and insulting him let's see… yes technically those are categories of conversation.
talk to him. deal with his grief. talk to him about what he's going through.
tell him you're sorry.
you were drunk and —
you called her up in the middle of the night. she was on the bus because of you.
yes i know that's all true. but... you really don't feel any sense of guilt? you want to keep him he needs to know he's not alone. just tell him you feel like crap.
well then find some meaning. and do something.
status.
the same thing you'd do if he was here.
what are the usual suspects?
i have complete confidence in you guys. [she leaves.]
mind if i come in?
i told you not to take that case specifically so you could deal with wilson.
is this how you show your friendship? by bludgeoning him with guilt?
well i can't let you walk away from a patient.
you're willing to risk your career but you're not willing to say you're sorry.
well make him believe it.
you don't want to believe it [angrily] because if you tell wilson how you actually feel about him about what happened to amber about your part in what happened and he walks out the door anyway… if you make yourself vulnerable for once in your nerve-deadening emotionally obliterating... [house swings the door shut in her face and walks toward his piano where he picks up his drink. cuddy continues her tirade through the closed door.] you're doing the same thing he is. you're running away. only he's not killing anyone in the process.
well that's quite a leap. just because i happen to have a 31-person maintenance department each of whom you’ve personally abused at some point —
that is not an unreasonable theory. especially with only ten minutes till your favorite soap. oh gee is this the remote from the doctors' lounge?
stop! i'm withholding your salary history from every hospital in the tri-state area.
and i'm permanently setting every tv in this building to the pottery channel unless you both sit down. [she sits in the chair next to the couch.] welcome to couples counseling.
nothing. nothing i say is gonna change anything. you guys need to talk.
talk to each other.
eh eh eh eh. sit! [they do.] see the two of you are friends. look how you both —
talk to him! tell him how you feel about what he's doing.
tell him what you think about him leaving.
you're an idiot. he's in pain. and your response is just to emotionally blackmail him.
go to hell.
i'm sorry you lost amber. i cannot imagine what it is you're going through. [wilson’s face tightens. he stands and walks to the door.] but it will not get better by you walking away from everyone that cares about you. do you think amber would want you to walk away?
why do you think wilson’s leaving?
and that's a good enough answer for you? whenever anyone does anything out of the norm you have to tell them what screwed-up process is really at work in their head. that is why i locked the two of you in a room. so you would say something stupid and insensitive and maybe with a little bit of truth. but you didn’t. so i can only assume that you don’t want to know the reason. you're afraid to know. [pause] you're not listening to me are you?
why are you in my office?
i'm gonna trust your first instinct.
i'm ordering her cancer treatment to be continued. [holds up a bill.] why does it cost $2300 to fix a coffee machine?
you've no proof.
the normal brain scan.
to treat or to prove you're right?
so the next step is what? i say no and then you do something to make her crash so that i'll think you've proven your theory?
no you won't.
this him?
this hospital's not putting a private investigator on retainer. nor is it gonna pay any more phony repairs on vending machines cryostats or elevators.
no saving lives costs money which is why i'm trying to make sure there's still some left! you want your own personal pi you're gonna have to pay for him yourself. [to lucas] sorry.
[leaving] uh… thank you.
why are you —
uh sorry. [it’s not lucas.]
you gave him your hat.
of course.
tell house that if he wants to know what i'm doing all he has to do —
you'd spy on me.
as romantic as you make that sound i'm pretty sure that what you're doing is… not so much caring as creepy.
you were scrounging through my desk.
in exchange for —
and i'd be paying you?
you think i need help keeping house in line?
this hospital can't afford —
how'd you know i liked roses?
wow. [she’s at the counter in a diner eating toast and staring at the picture. lucas is leaning on the counter and staring at her.] wow.
one sister. he told me he was on the lacrosse team.
wow.
fine. you have three more questions.
fine.
not something i'd discuss with coworkers in an elevator.
a bit of a wasted third question. 'cause the answer is know what?
i know the photo's a fake. and i know this is a game.
i… wanted to screw with house.
sorry about your father.
if there's anything i can do just —
we're giving ig shots to everyone who came in contact with your patient. shockingly none of the nurses volunteered to administer yours. [he starts to roll up his sleeve.] it goes better in a large muscle. drop your pants.
[gives him the shot] the funeral's tomorrow.
there is a 3:40 flight out of newark. if you leave now you can be in lexington tonight. your mother wants you to deliver a eulogy.
then be a grown-up. call your mother back and tell her that you're sick with grief but you're too busy to be there.
then start writing.
good morning dr. hadley.
(to house) i found her in the clinic giving herself iv fluids.
she has a fresh nightclub stamp on her wrist. she’s in no condition to practice.
i want her to take a drug test.
but i can suspend you until you do.
what do you think?
why are you here?
(not believing wilson) i’m sure.
i’m adopting a baby.
i didn't want anyone else to know in case i didn't get approved. today i did. (she smiles broadly)
are you gonna congratulate me?
great. that's all i need to know. [to house] you're late! [on the phone] okay bye. [she tries to give house a patient file.] 37-year-old male with recurring blackouts.
the three doctors he's already seen already ruled out drugs and alcohol.
eeg's clean. so is the ct.
you're welcome dr. house. it is an interesting case. [she starts to leave.]
[turning back] are you having your guy follow me?
we're meeting at 11:00. she's due to deliver a baby girl in two weeks.
she's not a crack baby.
she confessed to some past meth use.
because a kid you don't know may have some problems you don't know about that she may have passed on to a kid?
in a little place called follow me and your urologist will be buying himself a new yacht.
i'm not changing my mind. [she enters the clinic.]
becca?
lisa. nice to meet you.
no thanks.
how have you been feeling?
is there um anything you want to ask me?
ah i'm not sure. it's all been rather sudden you know? i like joy. but as i said i haven't really decided yet.
the agency web site is filled with prospective parents. their photos their biographies. there's so many wonderful people out there. wonderful couples.
[looks at becca’s wrist] how long have you had that rash?
have you had any joint pain?
they shouldn't all hurt. have you been using?
that needs to be checked out.
she's 38 weeks. you think it's fifth disease?
it's a viral infection. it can infect the fetus.
history of drug use could've compromised her immune system.
yes well maybe we want to look at the actual blood tests.
yeah.
[nods slightly] when this happens for real are you okay to deliver here?
good.
test it again.
i'm admitting her.
there are dozens of other things this rash could indicate. i want a full fetal work up.
she had a lace pattern rash joint pain and a history of drug abuse. you would've done exactly the same thing.
hey! what are you doing?
[pulling tissues from a dispenser at the nurses’ station] well played sir. you leave me no choice but to change. my clothes not my mind.
why do you even care? it's not like i'm ever gonna ask you to babysit.
what?
the baby's lungs are underdeveloped. she won't be able to breath on her own.
i don't know.
not a good time.
still wearing the sweater.
thank you. go away.
baby's sick. sorry i'm not finding the fun in that.
only you could see that as a bad thing.
victim? you think she's better off staying —
let me guess. i'm gonna tell her not to play ball in the house but she's not gonna listen.
you know you're gonna pay for that.
get out.
steroids make you more prone to infection. you'll have to stay here for the next two weeks so we can monitor you.
could be.
if you'd done everything right in your life i wouldn't be getting a baby.
i am scared.
not yet.
heart rate's climbing.
it's not the baby. it's you. [becca is bleeding onto the bed.] i need two units of o-negative stat!
the mother had a stage two placental abruption. she's losing blood.
the lungs are ten weeks premature. [she hands him a clipboard.]
she'll do whatever i tell her to do.
right. [she gets up to leave.]
you're not? you just told me —
the lungs might work. it's the right decision medically.
to get your opinion not to get jerked around.
this is an impossible situation. i'm advising her to take the safest route.
i think… i think you should wait.
there would be more danger for you but —
it's my medical opinion. it's my personal opinion. i don’t —
it might only be one week. we will keep you on plasma.
becca you asked my opinion because you wanted to do the right thing. you are giving up this baby because you don't want to make the mistakes your mom made her mom made. you have a chance to break this cycle to do something great for this baby.
get out of here.
house get out!
[looking at the delivery] later.
come on cry. [pause]come on. [they move her to a bassinet.] come on. joy cry. cry joy.
you hear that? you just got your first a.
have the risks of the transplant procedure been explained to you?
dr. house explained to you that all surgeries carry risk? you could die.
stop pressuring her.
[turning toward him] shut up. do you understand the risks of living with one kidney?
and you still want to proceed with the transplant?
okay go ahead.
i'm saying you can proceed.
the baby's doing great. i… i can't imagine how hard this must be for you.
you were scared.
that's not true.
you're not a loser.
[realizing what she’s talking about] becca.
becca don't do this. uh… what you're feeling is natural. but you're filled with hormones and emotion and fear and… you just can't make a huge decision like this right now. you have to give it some time.
it's a decision that changes everything. changes the rest of your life.
it's really not the greatest time for gloating.
no. i'm done. i can't go through that again.
yeah just like that.
you son of a bitch. when i was getting a baby you told me i'd suck as a mother. now that i've lost it you tell me i'd be great as a mother. [in his face. he looks a little taken aback.] why do you need to negate everything?
[as he closes the door] good night.
take-out menus. but i'm hoping you'll come up with a better answer when everyone asks what we're talking about. last night —
i know this is awkward but we need to talk.
i was emotional because of the adoption falling through. and you actually let your human side show for a moment. that is why we kissed. i just want to say thank you for not… taking advantage.
better.
uh everything involving me kissing house is good. oh god you dragged it out of me you're a genius. it's no big deal. i was feeling vulnerable. he's a friend. and i leaned on him.
i don't think of house that way. i never have.
you know exactly how it would go. it'd start off exciting. we'd get caught up in the novelty and the hostility and the forbiddenness. and then we'd realize that the flirty hostility is just hostility and his inability to open up is no longer exciting it’s just frustrating. and then it’s the inevitable blowup and the recriminations and we don’t talk for two months…
i get your point. i will be more careful with my tongue in the future.
(cuddy’s pager vibrates and she glances at it) gotta go.
you do know they page me when that much surgical equipment is signed out.
he didn't consent.
until he catches a post-surgical infection in his dirty apartment and finds out we tricked him and winds up owning the hospital.
house. you okay?
your hand.
well done. your patient called his lawyer threatened to sue us. he's now heading home completely undiagnosed.
not anymore you won’t. his lawyer now holds his health care proxy. the next time we have an emergency larry ruseckas esquire will be calling the shots.
the benefit of being boss is that i don't have to argue. you're all off the case.
(finding the file she was looking for) okay.
(picking up a stack of files from her desk) oh he's just trying to change the subject.
are you saying you want to date me?
(walking around to the front of her desk) but you thought you should just say it.
let's have dinner tomorrow night.
or maybe it would be better if we just… had sex.
in front of house's office. i mean i don't want to take any chances. (moving closer to wilson) i assume the point of this is to make him jealous and make him realize that he does want a relationship with me?
you're an idiot. trust me. everybody will be happier if house and i aren't dating.
why are you here?
no you don't.
i'm guessing he said no to the clinical trials.
house did something solely out of self-interest? that's freaky.
no. what do you think this is gonna prove?
and you spending two hours wiping noses will annoy house. if that is your dream god bless. if you want to prove you can do his job and something more… (she hands him a blue file and leaves)
[at the front desk] house what's going on in there? is everyone all right?
propofol? you sure —
oh god house. maybe we should wait for —
who know how to talk to armed —
dr. lisa cuddy dean of medicine. we just heard a gunshot but i haven't been able to make contact.
by perimeters i assume you mean snipers? we have to put an end to this.
uh no.
[quietly and slightly breathless] okay.
what am i supposed to say?
got it. i'm okay. can you tell him i'm coming in now?
why did he release you?
why would he do that?
house isn't the rooting kind.
house you can't —
is that all you care about? a moron storms the clinic bullies his way into life without parole you enabling him every step.
you think i handled this differently because you were in here?
this is why you and i can't be a… thing.
you want a relationship?
any idea why we're getting half as many requests for you as usual?
at least we have one case that looks intriguing. 30-year-old fitness trainer suddenly can't breathe. collapses and breaks her ankle. [he grabs the file and starts reading.] that's it? you're not gonna argue why this case is beneath you?
you can't run away anyway.
we are going to our office.
well that's just mean. my office was recently destroyed. i thought i’d use the office of the doctor directly responsible. [she blocks the door to house’s office with her arm.]
my desk won't fit in his cell. you can use our outer office.
[calling from house’s office] these walls aren't soundproof.
[loudly] the labs are back. and there's no sign of steroid use. can someone please read her file?
[joining them] perfect except that she was jogging half a mile from the nearest road. in the cold. cold air hits the lungs sets off an attack. exercise-induced asthma.
you're right. there's plenty of space here. neither one of us needs all of it.
huh? did you say something? i couldn't hear you from all the way over here on my side of the desk.
[into the phone] hold on a second. [she puts her hand over the mouthpiece and turns to house.] can you do this outside?
can you hold on a second? [she puts the phone against her shoulder and turns to listen to house.]
your plan isn't gonna work.
[searching in her purse] you're not bothering me.
[into the phone] i'm gonna call you from my cell. [she hangs up.] and then i will come back in here. [she dials the cell.] hey. yeah i just had to explain to him that i had his balls and he's not getting them back. [she pats house on the arm as she walks past him.] excuse me.
did he send you here to beg for it back?
other doctors actually use their offices for crazy stuff like seeing patients. not throwing a ball against the wall and calling it work.
did he give you talking points?
leave here now or i’ll take your office.
i was mixing some hydrogen sulfide for good and valid reasons and must've spilled some on my side. did it waft over to your side?
oh would you look at the time? i hope your patient isn't still sick… forcing you to stay here all night.
you're not cutting into this woman's brain before you test.
not for cns lymphoma which is a perfectly legitimate diagnosis. one you can test for non-invasively.
rule out cns lymphoma first. then rule out astrocytoma then rule out other brain tumors…
you're still here because you have the hots for me.
it's the biggest office. and i’m not the one that destroyed —
are you screwing with me?
everybody knows this is going somewhere. [pause] i think we're supposed to kiss now.
really? i'm an idiot for being surprised.
house is an unemotional child incapable of intimacy or romance. trust me it's done. [she looks at the newly furnished office.] it’s perfect.
that's not the one i ordered. [she runs her hands over it.] this is my desk from med school.
my mom did.
she didn't. my mom has no idea i’m redoing my office. [she stands behind the desk with a smile on her face.]
16-year-old female gets pranked and also gets visual hallucinations and vomiting. turns out to be a failing liver.
hepatic and neurological involvement —
i’m bringing in a case. you may have noticed me doing that before.
well taub might think that i like him if i stayed which is why i’m gonna do this. [she leaves.]
then why’d you have all those painkillers?
well maybe you took a few too many.
no. but high school wasn’t all that different when i was your age. teenagers can be incredibly mean. i know what you’re going through.
you’re pretty too.
forget about them. let’s just make you better.
acetylcysteine could save her liver but we have to act fast. if there’s any chance that she took all those pills —
okay. [cuddy starts to leave.]
150. bp 180 over 110. crackling three-quarters of the way up. [she gets a syringe from the medicine cart in the room.]
well scratch the hallucinations. that’s from the mushrooms. that leaves liver failure and now pulmonary edema.
yes. i was going to stalk you at home but it was a busy week and your office is closer.
update’s done. [she leaves]
natalie?
she’s having a seizure. put her on her side. [they roll natalie over] nurse!
not with the supple neck. i don’t know what this is. four milligrams lorazepam.
her alt’s twenty times normal. transaminases and pts way up. she’s gonna lose her liver. we gotta get her on a transplant list.
she’s a nice kid. i wanna make sure she’s okay. hepatic fibrosis?
you’re not really making this about the baby i tried to adopt.
natalie’s 16. i think you’re confusing being maternal with being human. [he stares; she looks away first.] if we hadn’t ruled out the mushrooms —
you could die. we can’t get you on the transplant list until we know why your liver is failing. alcohol abuse would explain that. the seizures could be from withdrawal.
a couple of vodka bottles a week…
then why did you stop buying from him? he said you got your own id.
see that’s not a good answer. remember when you asked me if i had any kids? i don’t. i don’t know maybe it has nothing to do with it but i was good at school good at work lousy at life. i screwed up every relationship i ever had. i thought ‘why would i want to bring a child into this?’ but then i got older and… [long pause] how you feel now will pass. don’t let it screw up your whole life.
uh what was that all about?
the parents said no to the benzos but i still think natalie’s not being honest with me.
she’s very depressed. she feels like she deserves what the other kids are dishing out on her. i think she either wants to die or she wants the attention that dying gives her.
house the parents just —
natalie’s liver’s continuing to fail and now bradycardia. atropine isn’t keeping the heart rate up. we’re gonna have to put her on a pacemaker.
multiple endocrine syndrome?
[shaking her head] it can’t be leukemia.
high alk phos could also be from liver failure. she’s a teenager. means bone growth and destruction could throw it off.
why are you ordering tests instead of treatment? her heart and liver are about to give up. do whatever you need to.
he doesn’t want us to treat her.
a double transplant —
[rising] i’ll arrange a biopsy.
what if we're wrong? maybe we shouldn't have overlooked autoimmunes. high sed rate —
so it isn't hepatic fibrosis. could still be microangiopathic vasculitis. [she takes armload of papers from visitors chair puts them on his desk and sits.] with high-dose steroids we might be able to reverse the —
what is it?
for you? [she follows him into the hall]
human parthenogenesis? you proved —
how did you check it five times? the cycler's broken. you would have had to send it out. it would have taken —
what? why?
you faked a scientific miracle just to win a bet with wilson? [she follows him back to his office.]
i think you're confusing nice and evil again. letting a woman deceive her husband by inventing a virgin birth just so you can—
it's not leukemia. seizures liver failure — it's eclampsia.
um you have a disease called eclampsia. it causes liver failure pulmonary edema and seizures. it's also associated with cardiomyopathy.
uh you can get eclampsia up to a month after giving birth.
loose clothes. she's heavy to begin with. it was probably premature. if it was three weeks ago they could have missed it on a physical exam. [to natalie] the baby's why you quit drinking isn't it? why you asked me if i had kids. why you feel guilty.
the damage to the heart and liver are permanent.
i'm sorry.
i'm a doctor.
did you uh... find the body of a baby?
that's not your baby. you're tiny. there's no way you gave birth three weeks ago.
that baby is sick. she needs clean water. she needs real heat. she was probably born with a partially blocked airway and… might even have brain damage. you can't take care of here in a place like this.
i know. you found her. you saved her life. now you have to let her go.
it's your daughter. she was alive. people found her and took care of her.
i spoke to both sets of grandparents. it's too painful. they're putting her up for adoption.
i already spoke to a lawyer. i become a foster parent and then i adopt.
[pulling folders from her bag and handing them to the receptionist.] i was up all night looking at finance reports and rachel is doing great. thanks for asking.
departmental budgets are due this week.
cameron already turned yours in.
same answer — now you owe her a favor.
house i’ve got a dyfs home visit on friday.
mama’s busy. you two are gonna have to go play outside for a while.
is anyone keeping an eye on him because this whole idea of suicidal watch was specifically created for suicidal patients. i realize how you might've thought the name was just a coincidence.
i’m inconveniencing you because you inconvenienced me. [pause] when was the last time you showered?
anyone should be able to handle a depressed pain patient…
apparently he lied. didn’t think i’d have to remind you of that remote possibility. i have a dyfs inspection in less than 24 hours so if you can't control —
go on.
take the garbage out on your way out. [she hands kutner a dirty diaper.]
or employ him. [the team leaves. cuddy jiggles rachel.] good girl.
and hearing me say no over the phone wasn't good enough?
you know that foster-care official is coming in the morning.
do not try and force me to choose between my child —
fine you want to separate a patient's central nervous system from the rest of his body.
and what about options three four and five? his respiratory system freezes or he dies of infection or he leaks cns fluid like a fire hydrant which would make him wish he were dead?
you preach objectivity but as soon as a patient comes in in pain all you want to do is look under the hood. you don't care if there's a one-in-three chance you'll kill him.
[checks her cell phone which is beeping] i gotta go. do whatever it is you think is right.
tammy you said you were gonna be a little late. dyfs is gonna be here in an hour and this place is a disaster. [there’s a knock on the door. james carlton the dyfs inspector is there. cuddy lets the phone slip from her ear.] never mind.
i really wasn't expecting you till later.
well i’m sorry this place is such a mess. it’s been a bit of a difficult workweek.
uh no.
no.
[removing the diaper] that’s not what i usually — um i sort of panicked. mr. carlton if you'd just give me a minute to explain.
really?
it’s open. [wilson enters carrying a giant stuffed duck. she laughs.] thank you.
she’ll grow into it. you can put it there. [she points to a chair.]
i passed.
this place was a disaster. i had to stash a dirty diaper in my briefcase.
i let house supervise himself. that’s like handing a 12-year-old the keys to the liquor cabinet and the car.
i passed by their meager standard. i failed by mine.
fail?
be lazy? blame others?
you offered to do house's budget because you wanted him to owe you wanted him to take that case. why?
can i ask you something? [cameron stops.] how would you like my job?
i know. i'm lucky.
she's eight weeks old. are you asking me about her politics or her sense of humor?
she cries she eats and she poops.
i don't feel anything.
i'm not sleep deprived. she sleeps fine. i'm obviously not hormonal. i know i'm supposed to feel amazement. i'm supposed to love her. i just… i don't feel anything at all. sorry. maybe i am just tired. um. thank you for stopping by. i'm okay.
i am feeding her i'm changing her and i'm burping her. i'm doing everything i'm supposed to do. she will be okay. please go back to work.
how in the world could you approve total body irradiation for a patient with possible itp?
there is no medical justification for that kind of —
you think he was bluffing.
don't get cute. don't engage him. do not play his games because you will lose.
it's not a big deal. i was having a bad day.
for betraying my trust in a vulnerable time? no. why would that bother me?
you saying i should give her back?
thanks. i'm just gonna go drop it off at the pound. [she leaves.]
i don't wanna go home. [she puts the carrier down and sits facing wilson.] house told me i should give her back. instead of being offended i've been wondering if he's right.
no he's always cold. he's always an ass but he's very rarely just wrong. i've read every bonding and attachment book there is. i feel like i'm in prison at home. i feel like i'm free here.
i don't know if i want to. i'm not proud of this. i feel terrible. i feel like a failure. but she deserves to be loved.
you really don't have to keep buying me things.
this is nice. [it’s a picture frame.]
that's uh sort of cool.
it's very sweet. i'll pay you back for the photo. [she puts it on the table and looks at it.]
[on the phone via loud speaker] house step away from the patient. [rachel is crying in the background.]
[to rachel] okay all right.
insulting me is not gonna make me go away.
dr. cameron you're actually assisting him with this?
[trying to calm rachel while she talks] well i'm familiar enough to know that cutting into this woman's brain is not necessary.
[doing just that] okay settle down baby. it's okay. we'll be done in a minute. [over the loud speaker] house i can call security. i can —
give her ten ccs dopamine.
you aren't hungry and you aren't wet. i don't know what it is.
okay rachel quiet down! i need you to be quiet!
[crying] i don't know what you want! i will give you anything that you want! i don't know what it is! tell me! please just help me! please! [rachel stops crying.] really? that worked?
move your feet.
i talked to her. we connected.
are you trying to annoy me?
i know it doesn't make any sense but it was real. it was there. you want to hold her? [to rachel] come here. come say hi.
a little.
your puke isn't as cute.
thank you. great work today. i should've trusted your instincts. i will in the future.
i think i just apologized. if you want i can get down on my knees.
you made the right call. the problem was a brain problem. without the procedure house never notices the increased left-brain function. she'd be dead if you hadn't said yes.
which leaves me.
come here. look at this. come here.
elevators can be capricious. sometimes it just seems like they're out to get you. she keeps playing with the blanket. why would she do that?
i don't know. maybe they wanted to take time off to spend with their little dumbwaiter. but then they had to leave it at home with an elevator sitter because you drove the replacement elevator to quitting because you're incapable of listening to anybody but me. that's just a theory.
i am gonna do my job. it doesn't mean i have to do it happily. doesn't mean i have to do it without resentment. and it definitely doesn't mean i have to do it without seeking vengeance on the person making me be here. congratulations. you've officially dragged me down to your level.
i don't remember demoting you.
(grabbing the magazine from him) that's just a rationalization by working moms to justify not being with their kids. which is fine if that's what they want. it's not what i want. (looking at the magazine) and this is “nurses quarterly.”
you're only here to get back at me by dumping dirty mop water on my carpet. just get it over with so i can get back to work.
good after all the stunts he's pulled on me.
that's the point.
(handing a file to the duty nurse) house shouldn't be allowed to make people miserable without paying for it.
you're telling me how i feel?
wow if only i'd known i was having fun i wouldn't have canceled the bouncy house.
i like what he does for this hospital.
(holding out the cane) i found this. in the uh coat closet. where i hid it.
you are who you are. it's annoying but... it's not your fault. it isn't about you. i… i… i'm sorry.
what? i'm apologizing. can't you just accept my —
what the hell is wrong with you?
when i was being a jerk you suddenly act human. but when i act human you turn back into a jerk.
this is your way of saying you accept my apology isn't it?
or this whole thing is just an act. and you've gone back to the part you think you need to play.
you doing anything friday?
that your way of saying you're having sex with a hooker?
well i was hoping you might be available for rachel’s simchat bat. it's a…
my house at 7:00. it'll just be the rabbi and a few friends and some family.
there'll be plenty of wine and nice people you can quietly mock.
house… it's one evening. i'd like you to be there.
i didn't pressure you. i invited you. and there's nothing hypocritical about recognizing your heritage.
house for better or for worse you are a part of my life. it isn't a ploy. it's a sincere invitation. i honestly want you to come.
i'm glad.
you idiot. i was free and clear. now he's coming and it's your fault.
since you forgot how to keep your mouth shut. you messed it up and now you're gonna fix it. and you're gonna keep my name out of it. (she leaves)
i can't override him.
eric the reality here is… house should've fired you. you falsified medical records put this hospital's reputation in jeopardy. you're lucky you still have a license.
i'm sorry.
you were right. i don't want you there. (they stop walking) it's a special occasion filled with love and acceptance and the last thing i need is someone there who's filled with loathing and contempt.
that's it? you're really not coming?
thank you.
house was right about the priest. genetic test confirmed it was wiskott-aldrich.
everybody would've discharged him house included. he only took that case as a stall.
by violating his own principles and ignoring the admitting symptoms. still he somehow got away with it. saved another life.
at least you have shoes that cover your toes.
yep. bad weather for it huh?
fingers crossed.
adolescent genetic mosaic collapsed during a basketball game presenting with persistent pelvic pain.
the parents haven’t told their son that he could have been their daughter. they want assurance that you won’t either.
that was easy.
yes those were my terms for sleeping with him.
sex with me would explain that but it doesn’t explain why i’m not curled up in a ball weeping in shame. (she sits down) i did not have sex with house.
or he’s just in a good mood this is not a crisis. maybe you can get back some of that money he owes you?
did you give house the moron with the broken finger?
the patient should have been screaming for another doctor seven minutes ago.
you were right; he is in a good mood.
house we have to talk.
can you get a pulse?
(to kutner) call a code.
what the hell is going on? (close-up of house who looks guilty)
looks like your brain is okay. pupils are equal round and reactive.
where are you going?
how can you? —
what are we gonna do?
i'm sorry for the position dr. hadley put you in but i can't do that. she's a valuable part of dr. house's diagnostic team. if he stays on the case so does she.
no — you won't. in about 15 minutes you're the only person that kid's gonna trust. if he needs a hand to hold make sure yours is available. (thirteen nods and leaves the offices. cuddy looks frustrated)
you still breathing in there? 'cause if not i'm sending in janitorial.
i know about the methadone.
whatever doctor you conned into writing it clearly had no idea about your addiction issues — your lack of —
you keep taking this you could die.
i can't sit by and watch you kill yourself. as long as you're in my hospital you can't do methadone.
that's it you're quitting? you're choosing methadone over this job?
i understand why you're angry. but this isn't where you belong right now.
he's a teenager you're his mother. this is not the time to start listening to him. go be with him. (melanie walks back toward jackson’s room.
i didn't do it for you.
no we didn't.
the methadone is gonna kill him.
if he buys a new pair of shoes should we let him smoke crack?
house doesn't do happy pain or no pain.
wow.
sorry i haven't done it yet.
i was busy with this. (she hands him a sheet of paper) it's a list of requirements for your methadone treatment. weekly drug tests. supervised doses administered on a precise schedule by me or one of the nurses.
yes. (pause) i'm offering you your job back. (she sits down)
no.
no. we both know this is where you belong.
welcome back. (house starts for the door then pauses and turns around)
you're welcome. (he leaves)
starting tomorrow you'll come to my office for your fix.
the kid’s parents wanted that mri.
you just solved a case that no one else could solve.
you don't need your pain to be a good doctor.
you're afraid to be happy.
you're afraid of change. the one thing you have is your intellect. you think if that's compromised you have nothing. (she holds up the dose of methadone) just take it.
don't do this.
house paged.
where's house?
oh he wouldn't have paged me if he couldn't watch and enjoy the—
that was for my benefit?
38.
dean of medicine.
so that was your way of saying i look good today.
(trying very hard not to smile) don't be ridiculous house. (she smiles as house turns away and the elevator doors close)
you have a patient waiting see? [she indicates morgan west who is standing behind her in the exam room door.]
if you're talking about mr. kazden he has a deceased sticker on his file. as do all the other follow-ups you have scheduled for today. [she hands him a file and pulls a piece of the “track” from an iv stand.] whoops. [she leaves.]
she's urinating on herself.
it's green.
you want to treat her? she's a nut job.
so you think this cat story is nonsense. and you admit she faked her earlier symptoms. but you still think she's actually sick now?
confirm she's faking or i'm gonna have to kick her out.
i'll give you 24 hours.
i told you to get rid of death cat.
i see a litter box.
you pee on the mice too?
are these… are these the genetically modified lab mice from oncology?
[taking the mice] get rid of the cat and get rid of your patient.
your team just completed a methacholine challenge which came up negative.
i'll never say. but yes.
i'm sorry but if you won't escort her out i'll have to get security to do it. [she leaves.]
i got the transfer papers. plasmapheresis is all set up. are you okay? [she touches the bruise on house’s cheek.]
what were you doing up there anyway?
i’m sorry. i’ve hired a grief counselor whom i’m sure none of you will see and i’m offering time off which i’m sure none of you will take. but just know it’s available. [long pause]
if you’d rather not deal with this case…
he hasn’t come to you?
you didn’t even have an inkling?
well… sorry for your loss.
then i’m sorry you don’t think it is. [she leaves and foreman and thirteen come in from the conference room]
kutner streaked at the penn-dartmouth football game. precisely the kind of thing you’d expect him to do. it’s okay. you should be upset. he thought like you pushed boundaries like you —
he needs a friend.
you need a friend too.
[long pause] he told kutner’s parents it was their fault.
it’s been trying to close out kutner’s email account. apparently someone’s still logged onto it.
he wasn’t murdered.
he’s coming up for parole. he’s not out on parole.
he was killed by his own gun.
in the temple. cops found residue.
you’re waiting on an aat protein results.
find what’s killing your patient. and then i’ll find you another patient.
new york mercy’s medevacing the liver. it should be here…
everyone’s heading over to kutner’s funeral. you’re welcome to ride with me.
she bought you some time to save eddie. it’ll give her death some meaning.
yeah. we went straight from the funeral to human resources. you interested in getting back on the team?
well she hasn’t said anything to me. but i guess uh the referring doctor might have asked her to keep an eye on him.
that is a ridiculous question. she’s in love with you.
that… is an even more ridiculous question.
you know what vacation means right?
are you in love with house?
you shouldn’t be involved with house. neither should i. neither should anyone. you and chase are good together. just don’t screw it up.
got a minute?
what’s going on with cameron?
okay. [she starts to leave.]
her son didn’t want the implant.
ms. miller i’m not trying to minimize dr. house’s wrongdoing but the best thing…
understand dr. house? [he’s in a fog] house. focus. i need you to say you accept the arrangement.
why did you do this?
not good enough. you always have—
okay. but i’m still putting foreman in charge of the case.
patient’s lung failure rules out ms. we put him on a ventilator.
are any of you sober?
i’m here with your team trying to sober them up so they can help treat your dying patient.
what causes lung failure plus your patient’s previous symptoms?
house are you there?
house don’t hang up. we need your help.
wait. everyone’s getting breath mints.
he must have left it in his pants. which he wasn’t wearing when the police found him trying to walk home… oddly from his own apartment.
your patient’s doing fine thanks to your team.
sarcoidosis.
house please talk to me.
it’s late and i’m tired. can we get to the talking part of this conversation?
great. my nanny is off the clock at 7:30 so your week off bigger desk tighter nurses’ uniforms or whatever other stupid thing you’re about to demand is going to have to wait until…
[very hurt] screw you. [she walks to the door.]
[stops] from the vicodin?
we can uh admit you through the er under a pseudonym. no one has to…
these people know what they’re doing.
let me call my baby sitter.
lie down. i’ll get you some tea.
i already did this room and the bathroom and your bedroom. where should i look in the kitchen?
that was a test. i already did the kitchen.
house you should tell me where it is now because you won’t have the will to tell me in two hours.
okay. hold my hand.
drink this. [hands him a glass.]
it’s ginger. it’ll ease the nausea.
i’ll add some honey. [she leaves]
no!
air goes in. air goes out.
you’re supposed to feel like crap. you’re doing great.
you come back to work.
opioid dependency can make you think you have more pain than you really have. you’re going to be okay.
i’m telling you what i believe to be true.
you’re hardly the most unbiased observer.
is that why you think i’m here?
i haven’t lied to you in 20 years.
you’re an ass.
i wasn’t in your endocrinology class.
i audited your endocrinology class.
because i thought you were an interesting lunatic even then. i’m not here protecting hospital property.
we’ve been alone all night.
i’ll see you in later? i have some papers to push for you.
[starts to open the door] you want to kiss me don’t you?
we need to talk.
i’m your boss. you’re an employee.
people who get close to you get hurt. that’s a fact. you’re also a valued doctor in this hospital. that’s another fact. from now on we’re gonna focus on the second fact.
this isn’t an emotional decision. i’m just giving you the rules. you can either accept them or leave.
we talked.
what?
when you first walked in i was under the impression you wanted to say something else.
about house and me.
fine. [she puts her coffee cup on the desk]
what do you mean what do i mean? do you mean that because a liver biopsy is not a test that by any stretch of the imagination can be considered risky so asking my permission is essentially wasting my time and you’re wondering what my reaction to that will be?
are you trying to make me angry?
do your biopsy. and also do your clinic hours.
really? let’s see how that goes. [wilson looks at them both. cuddy is calm and smiling slightly.] still not angry. try again later.
still a check this size…
stool sample.
thank you. i’ll take care of it.
i understand.
i know.
have a nice day.
this is beyond ass-hood! you have the luxury of not caring about your image. i do not! i can permit a lot of crap but an employee shouting about his sexual exploits with me — no! that is zero tolerance! so congratulations house. i am angry.
[laughs humorlessly] you’re fired. [she leaves.]
whatever it is just say it quickly.
how could that possibly be relevant to anything?
fine. i am overreacting. you’ve said plenty of lousy things to me before. but reaching the final straw has been a good thing because it made me realize we not only don’t have a personal relationship we never could.
you insulted me. i walked out. it’s nothing that hasn’t happened a hundred times before.
great. my nanny is off the clock at 7:30 so your week off —
screw you.
are you okay?
are you okay?
