(to vince) your ncv test was normal. rules out carpal tunnel. no evidence of trauma. your blood work looks normal.
i don't know. i'll arrange to have you transferred to a neurologist.
you're the boss. it's kind of sexy.
no fatigue or weight gain. what about complex regional pain syndrome?
and yet something's missing.
that's it.
and you're currently getting mixed reviews in speed-the-plow on broadway. (vince and taub look at her questioningly) google it. it's pretty hard to consume enough fish to give yourself mercury poisoning and it doesn't usually present solely with pain.
who needs actual doctors when you got the internet?
he asked us to test his blood for mercury. it's unlikely but not impossible.
testing doesn't hurt. it only takes 20 minutes. i figured it didn't matter.
i'm glad you changed your mind.
not if we're in correctly. is it your hands? your back?
you need to hold still.
his lungs are filling with fluid.
when his heart sped up during the procedure it jacked up the pressure in his lungs causing pulmonary edema.
it did lead us to discovering a new symptom and proved he was wrong about mercury poisoning.
couple months.
(getting up) so we search his office for drugs.
i think it's best if we kept things professional.
(closing the laptop) we need to know if you've been using cocaine.
you think he was lying?
it was worth asking. if he'd had said yes it would've saved us a trip.
you have to forget about him.
house. first you try acting like him. that doesn't work. so then you try the opposite. now you're mad because you have to use his move.
tom brady's backup now makes 10 million dollars. stop comparing. you can do this by being you.
i'll get taub.
can we make it 8:00?
and you are?
and you're completely okay with being ordered around by someone who 24 hours ago was basically your equal?
the work part i can get used to. he didn't ask me to go to dinner. he told me we were going. he's never done that before.
(fascinated by the bats) it's kind of amazing. the way the wings move it's so real.
i know what's wrong with the patient. i'm going to call foreman.
it's also a good way to contract an infection called psittacosis. we spoke to dr. foreman. he wants to start you on antibiotics.
you've had an erection for three hours?
i'm afraid not. this isn't psittacosis.
i'm dedicated. so the holy trinity: heart hands hose.
his platelet count isn't that high. brain tumor makes more sense.
it is possible for a brain tumor to cause <U+0096>
okay.
it felt like an order. your tone of voice was<U+0097>
look this is tough for both of us except i haven't just gotten a promotion.
no. i'm just saying don't complain about the burdens of command to your employees.
i have no idea.
i think both theories have merit.
he asked me a question. i answered.
i didn't even say what i really thought. i hedged and i don't like that i hedged. if i have a legitimate opinion <U+0096>
except the team opinion is your opinion.
and what's mine to lie when i'm asked a direct question?
at least when house was being an unbelievable jerk i could talk to my boyfriend about it.
(following house to the kitchen) for what?
i showed up to ask if you've seen thrombocytosis with a platelet count under <U+0096>
what's that?
cameron didn't come by?
it's not a problem. it's um... okay. it's a problem. i mean i get it the patient's a nightmare. he posted his case online. it <U+0096> you know foreman. you know the situation. how can i get him to tone it down?
he's the one who's afraid of failure.
(bring a tray of crackers over to house) you're saying this is all my fault?
you just suggested that i give in so that i can be happy. what did they do to you in there?
um good. this might be the best thing i've ever eaten. and yes i'm including what you're thinking of now. you are an amazing cook!
i'll get a vase and put it in water. (she takes the bag from him. he follows her into the room)
i'm sorry too. do you think um... we could start over?
we're gonna be late.
steroids reduced his facial swelling.
you were saying?
no no jumping off a cliff in a herd of pigs.
nope. thyroid levels are normal.
he's a jerk. we'll be fine without him. do you know how many resumes we get every day without even asking?
the case got solved under your watch. does it really matter how it happened?
okay you're sad. i could tell you the story about me and my roommate at sarah lawrence.
her name was lindsey and she was a cheerleader from iowa.
the antipyretics didn't work. hopefully the cold tub will get his temp down. maybe we should see if anyone's sent in other ideas. maybe the reward money attract <U+0096>
yes.
already stopped chemo and confirmed fabry's.
we assumed the deposits in your kidneys were proteins but they were fats. fabry's makes them build up in your organs choke your nerves keep your fingers from pruning in water. it's chronic but manageable.
iodine mumps. his lymph nodes swelled up after the head ct. we thought it was a new symptom but it wasn't. it was a reaction to the contrast. iodine mumps takes lymph nodes off the table. remove that symptom...
i looked through the online responses again. someone posted it this morning.
heard cuddy made it official. department's yours. congrats. i'm sorry. i went behind your back. on a scale of 1 to 10 how mad are you?
i should've stood up to you.
(sitting down in front of the desk) it's our first case. it'll take time to adjust.
that's not gonna happen.
you're breaking up with me?
why are you...? you're firing me.
i don't want the job.
because there's a much simpler explanation for you firing me. you wanted to break up with me but you were too weak to do it yourself.
i'm sorry. [she closes the door.]
i got a call from douglas' department at princeton general. they want me to interview with them. which is weird because when i called last week they said they had nothing available. so i never sent in my resume.
most people send chocolates.
so... about dinner i'm free tomorrow night.
cameron and chase?
there was a third.
you could have stepped aside.
you could have asked cameron or chase to take your place.
you just said they both really like diagnostics.
i want to make this work. i want to understand you. i mean you know how you made me feel. if you could do it again...
i'm making travel plans. just need to get away. have some time to myself. [looks back at her laptop.] you getting the hint?
it wasn't an experiment. it was a relationship. you may want to look into the difference. [they look at each other thirteen smiles.] i'm glad you're better house. i actually liked working for you. but i'm not coming back.
are you here to try to save my relationship with foreman?
i'm going to thailand.
[smiles.] good-bye house.
bangkok. flight 799.
not sure yet. luckily i have a friend who's staying at my place taking care of my dog. he's really big so he needs a lot of exercise. [back to the phone.] remy hadley. h-a-d-l-e-y.
no of course not.
look i'm sorry. i don't know you. you're either honest or dishonest. i figured the safer choice is to...
i said i'm sorry. [to the phone.] oh hello. i was wondering if there were any business class seats open that i could use my miles to upgrade to.
okay you're a saint. [back to the phone.] that's impossible. i confirmed my reservation last night. so rebook it. well obviously it was a mistake on your end not mine. no i'm on my way to the airport right now.
stay out of my life.
i know you canceled my reservation. you obviously saw me log in when you were spying on me in the coffee shop.
i'm not coming back on the team.
i cannot work for with or around foreman.
the bahamas?
i told you thailand.
thanks.
for thinking i was worth breaking the law to keep around.
cuddy had it trace all the ip addresses who've logged in to my email account. there were two. mine and yours. [walks over and sits down in front of wilson.]
i already asked house.
no he'd lie. except he wants me gone. and he'd do a lot better job of lying than you just did.
no actually. but it doesn't matter anymore. why? because of house or foreman?
house will be fine.
why didn't you just come to me?
[smiles.] bye wilson. [gets up to leave.]
[shrugs.] it doesn't matter.
bye wilson. [leaves.]
thailand was wonderful. thanks for asking.
i have an interview with a community health clinic in two hours.
good point. i won't divide my attention then. [closes door]
[looks at him briefly then back at the photos] it was. house send you to talk to me?
then there's nothing to talk about. i don't want to work for him.
are you saying this because you still have feelings for me and you want me to come back?
do you have feelings for me or not?
you couldn't keep them separate. and that's why our personal life doesn't exist.
i can't work with you.
[approaching from the other side] what are you doing here?
[doing sit ups] not getting drawn into this.
because you crashed my workout?
and my first choice is the community health clinic i interviewed with yesterday.
why are you doing it this way? you're pretending to assume we're all coming back without actually asking us. why?
[stands and faces him] you can't ask because you can't face the rejection. why not? what's going on?
i'm saying you shouldn't for your sake as well as mine.
those threadworms. why would his body have gone to hell just hours after they were gone?
it's the hygiene hypothesis. why there's so much autoimmune disease in the developed world and almost none in the developing world.
once you killed them it started killing him.
ataxia and anemia could be viral. maybe west nile?
he's right. [house chase and taub stare at her.] what you thought i wouldn't agree with him? ever?
ttp isn't completely curable but the symptoms are manageable with the proper treatment.
no first we need to do a blood test to confirm the diagnosis.
not really. in fact he seemed pretty normal.
speaking of house why'd you come back? i mean you must've taken a major pay cut.
your wife feel the same way?
why wouldn't i? like foreman said nobody's angry. nobody's hurt. [looking in the microscope] schistocytes.
which is what we thought it'd be. remember? this is a good thing.
normally we'd try plasmapheresis but the patient has an albumin colloid allergy.
you're sure you want us to take out his spleen.
could be dic.
[to taub] you gonna ask?
maybe she got married and changed her name.
except the tox screen was negative.
what's with the ties?
so why lie to your wife about it?
hold still.
tuna salad. closest thing they had to turkey.
anything?
blood panel?
[eating her sandwich] that's it?
so it was a waste of time.
renal failure. explains the anemia. if he developed hyperkalemia that would explain the ataxia. but the stroke?
nice. except now we have to stay and test his kidneys. [she hands him his sandwich.]
rhabdomyolysis.
no utis or flank pain.
he hasn't been coughing.
we'll do it right after we run it by house.
us not you.
it's definitely his kidneys. we just don't know why it's his kidneys.
any word from cameron?
i started seeing a counselor after my diagnosis. she's really good.
we pretty much do. our egos want us to think we're all snowflakes no two alike but really we all want the same things. love forgiveness... chocolate.
dextromethorphan. as in cough syrup?
vitamin b12 deficiency? gives us anemia numbness.
if he has a vascular malformation <U+0096> anemia's not macrocytic.
oh my god.
ultrasound is clear.
almost finished.
confusion. delirium.
27.
he's probably eating lunch in the morgue. i can page him to your office if you want.
(taking the file from taub) could be fungal.
or it could be from the fire.
so he's dangerous and withholding which you find irresistible. [confidentially] but guys like that they never call.
so now he's not just a drug dealer he's a cocaine dealer.
he got worse here at the hospital. means thug life probably isn't what's making him sick.
thought i'd give myself a little treat. what if it's not his brain but it's on the way to his brain? carotid stenosis.
ultrasound showed no narrowing or obstruction in the patient's carotid.
you bugged his room?
but we ruled out environmental causes.
bug's a better idea than blindly running tests for days.
beats sitting in a lab all day.
we're in a car in broad daylight. what's gonna happen?
that he's gonna use to shoot doctors?
borrowed it from a friend.
until it's no longer fun. we all thought he needed to be taken down a few notches.
oh crap.
he's gonna get away.
shut up.
what do you mean no it doesn't? we screwed up the tail. my car was impounded.
you're off environmental?
actually i resorted to something more exotic. i call it reading the instructions. turns out if you screw the antennae into the wrong sockets it doesn't actually work.
[clears her throat] it's supposed to search for an open frequency.
you bugged your own room? are you... an informant?
you're saying we should use the cop thing to force him to talk?
if you won't talk to us we'll find someone who will. i mean you must have a supervisor. a... handler.
that's noble but you can't put your life at risk.
any more clots keep forming he may not last 24 hours.
except that treating for everything could kill him faster than whatever's killing him.
sort of. chase is right. our patient is holding out for noble reasons: protecting his bust. anybody else on that crew got sick i'm guessing they'd be a little more self-serving.
surgery went well. you'll be able to see him soon.
mickey's getting worse. the clot is a very bad sign. we really need you to tell us where he's been.
look mickey got sick because he had the most exposure. other guys are at risk too. you don't want to... [she looks at eddie.] you okay?
are you diabetic?
when was the last time you were at your office?
what?
of course not but if you are sick <U+0096>
[pause while she thinks annoyed] you didn't even drink half of it. you'll be fine in an hour. [she gets up to leave.]
couldn't have given us a heads up that he was living
i gotta cover all our bases.
what are these more chemicals?
no.
[whispering] come here. [loudly shoving him away] i said no kissing!
look the deal was just for you. this guy wants to watch it's an extra 50.
which leaves the dry-cleaning chemicals. should have the results in a few minutes.
we can't tell him. won't change the fact that cuddy let him walk. it'll just let him know it was all because of a stupid prank.
don't bother. we assumed this place was using perchloroethylene. turns out... petroleum solvents.
i didn't see any fungus at the location and none of the samples <U+0096>
and... the steroids we gave him would have suppressed his immune system. if that was a fungus he'd have 30 aneurysms.
it was all our fault.
we know and that's why we want you to take it out of our paychecks.
even if you had told us everything we wanted to know it wouldn't have made a difference. you did the right thing.
you're taking the case because she's hot?
or... she you know loves her husband.
yeah. it's almost like we don't all need to be here.
we'll start her on cardiac meds. that should help. but we still need to figure out what's causing the arrhytmia.
maybe you should come back later.
okay you need to leave right now.
i'm sorry but i totally disagree.
with everything. why are we assuming he's lying and she's telling the truth?
maybe she picked him because he's vulnerable. there's something off about her i can feel it.
why didn't she tell us a co-worker puked on her shoes right before she collapsed?
you don't think it's suspicious she didn't even mention it to her husband?
this is about the case not some imaginary issue that you think foreman and i have.
i don't think he was talking to me.
i'm the only one who thinks you're wrong.
that's what i told her. you can chastise me after you look at the monitor. look what's lighting up.
i told her it was customary to talk during mris to relax. i spent the last 30 minutes asking her about everything in life that she loves then hates then feels any emotion about at all.
because she's using the language part of her brain and bypassing the emotional. she can understand love and pain and empathy but she can't feel them at all. she's a psychopath.
why do you want to meet her so badly?
he's not.
your co-worker's story was true. you poisoned him.
so you were just helping him out? and i assume he was cool with the whole seducing and firing part too?
she kind of reminds me of someone i know.
i thought you were bluffing to get information. you really think they're connected?
psychopathy is generally just genetic. nothing you can do about it. something that hits 30 years after birth isn't gonna be connected.
maybe a handful of diseases.
she might have caught it at birth. so it doesn't prove she was cheating. if you were worried about that.
(surprised by the abrupt turn in behavior) not at all.
can i have your arm please?
i don't know what happened.
thanks.
we can't start radiation without immunoassays on her urine.
we have some left over from admission.
then how about partially accurate?
no thanks.
we were getting to a diagnosis.
(to bill) you okay?
i'm sorry but... we could still check for environmental toxins. where does she spend most of her time?
hobbies? recurring activities outside the home?
when did it meet?
you dig in soil you can be exposed to pesticides heavy metals lots of bad things. can you find out all about her landscaping class where it was details like that?
i just thought <U+0096>
what for? you seemed to have lied your way out of any trouble.
what?
(picking up the phone) hello? this is dr. hadley. (listening) what?
(angrily) you called the medical board?
accusations of sexual harassment. you don't think i know it's you?
you already got me fired from the case. what else do you want?
(still very angry) she's trying to make me lose my license.
sexual harassment accusations are incredibly serious.
you'd be pissed off too if you were me. or maybe not i don't know. you're just about as emotional as she is.
i know. and even when you try to do something nice you sound like a jerk.
for what?
don't do that that's not what this is about.
amyloidosis?
with an unconfirmed diagnosis? not gonna happen.
he left her i assume?
no one's gonna risk their life to save hers.
sarah? i'm dr. hadley. i'm<U+0096>i'm sorry to bother you but i was told you're valerie's sister? i was just surprised you came to visit.
i was even more surprised you got tested as a donor.
but why? i mean you know what she's like.
yes she is.
she protected you when you were kids?
when?
we were wrong. psychopathy is a symptom. i spoke to her sister. she wasn't always like this. she changed and right around adolescence.
we ruled that out. no keyser-fleischer rings.
you're gonna get better. your body has an inability to process copper. it caused all of your problems. even what's wrong with your brain.
it's probably rewired her neurons permanently by now.
maybe. i have to go get the chelation equipment. bill i need you to sign some forms.
you don't see what she's doing? she's laying the groundwork to get her treatment wake up a completely different person so that you and all of your money stay with her. it's a lie.
okay there's a teeny chance. but even if it cures her it's not going to make her love you.
i know. and i'm sorry but it wasn't real.
your vitals are up.
i'm not sure we can fix your liver but we can definitely list you for a new one.
why did you do that?
he hasn't changed... but you have. the treatment actually worked on your brain. if you were still a psychopath you would've just kept draining him dry.
you're feeling something. what is it? what do you feel?
it will.
thanks. why are you here so late?
(taking the clipboard) um... radiotherapy.
third day after admission patient underwent radiotherapy including external beam radiation... (she pauses and looks at foreman as he types) to treat b-cell lymphomas. first treatment was... (flipping to the next page) full mantle therapy...
22-year-old male <U+0096> 6'7 310 pounds. clearly has brain involvement. [looking at the video of daryl hitting himself] the guy has no recollection of this entire incident.
pituitary damage wouldn't be visible on a ct scan.
you want to induce cardiac arrest?
arterial plaque throwing clots would explain the fingers head heart.
what happened to your face?
the patient's alive and improving. is that proof enough?
is he serious? did your mom pass away?
i'm so sorry.
[to foreman] you should stop him. he needs this job.
so it has to be cancer. paraneoplastic syndrome is the only thing that can link kidney heart and liver <U+0096> even the rage.
his bp is plummeting. he has an elevated heart rate. looks like congestive heart failure.
patient makes money doing freelance photography. some photographic processes produce toxic gases.
her photos may be digital <U+0096> doesn't mean she couldn't have been exposed to some other toxin. we should search the apartment.
i'm surprised you took the pro-community position.
you also like secrets. you deny it it sort of proves my point.
we're doctors. we aren't stealing anything. [she shows that she's wearing purple rubber gloves.] we're collecting samples.
you take the anti-recycling position?
she said she doesn't have any secrets. i'm taking her at her word.
hemolytic uremic syndrome.
it's okay. be not afraid.
find anything?
[getting coffee] revelations like that might just earn her a new kidney. an hour after she blogged about her kidney failure the hospital got a call from singapore. one of frankie's readers asking how hard it would be to donate.
oh okay then it's an appropriate question.
so date men. they're not shallow at all.
yes. we are physical beings. some more than others. please don't define my entire gender based on one night.
you're a doctor. she was doing you a favor.
the first person i ever fell in love with turned out to be a total tool. i mean he came across all funny and charming and thoughtful but it was an act. he saw something he wanted and he knew he had to behave a certain way to get it. in retrospect the fact that i was 17 and he was 30 should have been a clue. figuring out who people are takes time. it takes twice as much time if they're trying to impress you. now i could take from this that anyone who loans me their car has an ulterior motive or i can accept that it's just a nice thing to do and take people as they come. [pause] you wanna do the first injection?
[packing ice around frankie] fever's at 104. the antibodies tripped her autoimmune response. the vaccine is killing her.
she was all right when i woke her this afternoon to give her the second injection.
but which one? no one she knows is sick. she hasn't traveled anywhere. there's nothing in the history she gave us. nothing in her blog.
malabsorption. her system's not retaining the necessary nutrients.
faces can be distracting but there's nothing better than looking into someone's eyes and well everything that goes with that.
why are you so hung up on this? i refuse to believe it's all because you just noticed you have a nice face. you just came off a relationship. you know things go deeper than... is that what this is about? you and cameron?
paranoia. you felt something real. so did she. don't try to take it back now.
[smiling] no.
tox screen's clean for everything except the alcohol and her b.a.c. was barely .05.
how do you know cuddy?
cuddy has a soft spot for smart girls and they don't start drinking until second semester senior year.
then how did you <U+0097>
you don't already know?
could be a fungus.
transesophageal echo could give us a better idea of what we're looking at.
why are you lying to house? chase told me. what's the big deal?
i really don't think she's gonna tell anyone.
so tell him or tell him it's none of his business.
really? because it seems much harder. what do i know? i'm not a guy.
it's not about the yoga.
my guess is she thinks you don't want to spend time with her because you're spending it with someone else.
because you'd tell the truth?
doesn't matter. you have a history. and that's not her fault.
that is a problem.
there's the heart.
can you give her a little more sedative?
she's dissecting.
this doesn't make sense. her b.p. is normal and her heart rate was controlled.
nice.
cardiac paddle.
again. (machine whines)
no.
normal sinus rhythm.
what about an allergy? a severe enough one could set off a systemic immune reaction cause fluid in the lungs and inflammation that could weaken the aorta.
unless it was inside her.
we think a severe allergic reaction could be causing systemic breakdown.
when's the last time the two of you had unprotected sex?
when?
what about a blood clot?
hallucination means brain problem.
it's a bit convoluted but brain and heart function are susceptible too.
the content of the hallucination isn't relevant.
out-of-body experiences can be induced by sensory overload in the temporoparietal junction.
(to abby) what are you thinking?
her dad? he died when she was eight.
um private-plane crash <U+0097> no connection.
what about the liver?
liver's responsible for proteins immunological effects production of red blood cells. might be able to explain the lungs the hallucinations.
what now?
oh no you don't want to mess with me. true or dare queen at newton north.
sure.
truth.
no.
wait just <U+0096> just because i'm bisexual?
do you understand what bisexual means? it doesn't mean you have sex with two people at once. [wilson chuckles.] and by the way you didn't ask me if i'd had a foursome. truth or dare?
no but now you've asked me two questions so i get to ask you two. you see why i was the queen.
truth.
he made me tea. seriously. doesn't matter what i tell him. he smiles tells me he supports me and makes me some peppermint tea. truth or dare?
are you dating anyone?
interesting. you added a modifier. truth.
no no. no.
if it was something personal about him or us i just don't think that's right to answer. we all work together.
just pick something else.
i changed my mind. dare. just no nudity.
that is the most idiotic dare ever. have you ever played this game?
your dare is in the future genius.
no no no no. of course i'll show my breasts to taub. tomorrow perhaps or maybe some time next year you know because i'm honor-bound. truth or dare?
you said you weren't dating anyone now. does that you mean you recently were or soon will be? [he hesitates his lips pinched together.] oh. look who's guarded now. you had no problem talking about your sex life but your love life... fine. dare it is.
you're too much of a nice boy wilson. let's let the bad boy out for a bit. you have to go steal one dollar right now.
truth.
i'm sorry.
no i didn't even play fair. you asked me how my dad reacted when i told him i was bisexual. and the huntington's.
i never told him. he's been through enough.
i work late. he's staying at my house. it's easier if i stay elsewhere as much as i can.
you don't see a little irony in that? that's exactly what you do for house. when he moved in with you you bought a bigger place for him. no wonder you're not dating anyone.
your ex-wife?
you can't take a woman to dinner or else house will go running straight back to the loony bin? you're not worried about house. you're worried about yourself. because she's an ex. so even dinner will mean it's immediately serious.
little baby's all growed up.
i'll stop by his hotel talk to him.
the part about it being a good idea for you to call sam. that was true.
good night james.
i had a dream like this once. it didn't end well.
weeks not weekends. says here he's been camping out for a month.
could be an allergic reaction to something from the renaissance fair.
is he saying i have short legs or hairy feet?
(she is eating a turkey leg) relax it's not personal. just tell them you're a time traveler or something. well if we're gonna be here we might as well enjoy it.
we need to look at the area he was camping out in.
(leaning over his shoulder) hmm... looks like vomit. means he was showing symptoms prior to the fight.
why?
serious bacterial food poisoning explains seizure and vomiting.
or testicle cow brain or my personal favorite pig rectum with a side order of sphincter.
i need your right arm.
his heart rate's become irregular.
i need his gown open.
there is an infection that can cause skin and neurological damage and spreads rapidly without treatment.
(to foreman) you weren't wearing gloves when we shocked his heart back into rhythm.
that's good but we won't be out of the woods for sure until the blisters start to recede.
what's wrong?
just now?
so how long have you been in love with her?
why don't you tell her?
the king? haven't seen him visiting or sitting by your bedside.
yeah. i'm guessing the queen does too.
you're not a knight. you're just a guy.
your chest?
it's his heart rate again.
it's slowing why aren't you-
clostridium's in dirt and basically harmless.
we already ruled out food poisoning. both the butcher shop and the food stands at the fair were totally clean.
i think he's saying it's different with you shannon. it's a guy thing <U+0097> they don't like showing weakness in front of each other. right william?
(pulling over a tray of instruments) i'm gonna take a small sample of your muscle tissue here. (to shannon) do you mind waiting outside for this?
he's safe with me.
it's not my call but if you ask me she's waiting for you to.
right they conquered countries and built castles by being selfless. bravery and loyalty are great qualities for soldiers. if you want to be king sometimes you have to be willing to take what's yours.
she's not his either... not yet.
his muscle biopsy is clean. it's not trichinosis. house was wrong this is not environmental.
you think we did?
what could we have missed?
there's nothing in his blood work even remotely suggesting that.
you wanna re-test every sample we took for spores? we'll be here all night.
and that's relevant how?
where does it hurt william?
rhabdomyolysis means his kidneys are failing.
he hasn't been there in three weeks<U+0097>
kitchen's clean.
it's locked key wasn't on his ring.
of course not.
ahem...
my hero.
either a secret entrance to hogwarts or... our knight... is a witch.
he claims it's just sugar water but we sent the rest down to the lab for testing.
of what?
we're wasting our time.
i told you there's nothing here that could have caused any of his symptoms.
and now we're gonna find something new because we're in costume? we looked everywhere tested everything. just because wilson's acting stupid doesn't mean we are.
of course. but he'll figure it out sooner or later. hopefully after a few weeks of great sex. nothing ventured nothing gained.
thanks for the compliment.
a great guy.
yeah it's the apothecary shop. and yes foreman and i already... (she is talking to herself as house has already headed toward the apothecary shop)
both harmless who cares?
it's poison; think hard.
he's still alive. you want to avoid a murder charge start talking fast.
i can think of at least one reason.
no he wouldn't.
how are you feeling?
you should be. you'll compromise your ideals to win a fight but not to go for the woman you love.
hurt anyone? try telling that to shannon. or maybe i missed something while she was crying by your bed. you don't need to win anyone's heart. you just need to ask for it.
i guess house was right about that too.
you really are an idiot.
interesting case. 35-year-old woman with fever and abdominal pain. e.r. ruled out all the usual suspects.
and she's in an open marriage.
std panel was clean.
no you and i are friends and you don't have coffee with me three times a week. (they start walking together.)
fascinating. last week that cambodian lab tech was telling us how he survived the killing fields and you left to go get a donut.
it's dangerous. that woman would totally do you.
all i'm saying is if you want to be on a diet you might want to stop hanging out by the dessert cart.
we'll be here all night.
no no no. he's not being cynical. he's assuming the husband is doing something to even the score which means he thinks there is a score which means cheating swans aside house believes in monogamy. he's being romantic. (during this part house quits the sad look for a warning one then gestures his hands to thirteen tone like it's music).
she's been with two people other than tom in the last six months. neither of them have been outside the tri-state area.
you seem pretty mellow about this couple's deal. thought you'd be first in line to shake a finger.
not counting the emotional fondling. (pause). when my mom was dying my dad had an affair.
i'd seen them get out of his car. two years after mom died they got married.
at the time yeah. but looking back it makes sense. my mom never knew about it and he needed someone to make him feel less alone. he took care of my mom day in and day out for two and a half years before she died. he was devoted to her. loving someone else didn't change that.
whoever's taking care of me when i get sick i hope they've got someone else to take care of them.
forget nebraska. (she comes back showing a loofah). maybe they just bought their parasites at the mall.
see you in radiology.
i think it's good you brought it up. i read a study that found men who have multiple copies of a certain vasopressin receptor are twice as likely to be unfaithful. maybe you're just one of those guys. (she rolls her eyes really comically trying to convince him. he doesn't look pleased.)
multiply times five. we need a better look at the medulla. i thought you'd be relieved. this gets you off the hook. it's just genetics.
vq scan confirmed the spot on julia's lung was a clot.
if he has a secret i highly doubt it's more relevant than the clot.
julia's got insurance. i saw the policy number on the form.
we'll just give you a few minutes to<U+0097> (she pinches house's arm and start to go. he turns but doesn't move).
it's not medically relevant. you're not gonna care.
he builds wind turbines and leases them out to local power companies.
vitamin k deficiency also fits. causes thrombophilia and is consistent with abdominal pain.
but it can wait five minutes.
did tom go home for the night?
money is a complicated subject.
all our tests came back negative. it's not a clotting disorder.
taub was gonna do all of that anyway. pulmonary arterial hypertension.
because lying alone in a hospital bed contemplating bankruptcy <U+0097> hot.
alport and anti-gbm antibody are both untreatable so if she has them we can't help her. (chases crosses those out too.)
well everything left on the list.
sarcoidosis makes sense too.
i think you should call tom.
i don't know.
don't you think that's kind of unfair? you say honesty's all-important but you conveniently ignore the truth that some truths hurt people. tom lied to protect you.
i'm not talking about the money. tom hasn't slept with anyone else in over a year.
no. your husband who only wants you lied so that you could be happy. that seems pretty real to me.
o for three. her kidney function is still declining. we're gonna need to start dialysis.
they're from his garden. mercury poisoning fits.
we also ruled it out because there's no rash.
we'll treat her with high-dose ivig and cyclophosphamide. you should be fine.
he just moved in with his fiancee three months ago. toxic exposure could take longer than that to manifest.
(looking in the cabinet under the kitchen sink) you think a 27-year-old has pica?
what'd you tell that cute physio?
no you didn't. you're more nervous than usual.
(looking up) that's a suspended ceiling.
i want to see what's above it.
made of 40-year-old acoustic tile.
(getting down off the chair) do you know ted taylor? he used to live here.
he's our patient at princeton plainsboro.
we think he may have asbestosis from your ceiling tiles.
after three years?
if there's been any unprotected sex we'll need to test for hiv.
what business is it of hers? (house and thirteen leave)
how about it'll make them both miserable?
it has to be hers as well which it can't be as long as she doesn't know he's gay.
like you've never bent the rules.
i don't lie about who i am.
does it bother me that people hurt others because they're too weak to face the truth? yeah. sorry about that. (she looks over at taub also)
so maybe being straight did.
the test was negative. no hiv.
what you didn't tell us is how you turned your life around. it can be pretty hard.
downright impossible on your own.
it was more than just talk wasn't it? i know this is personal stuff. i'm here to help you not out you.
conversion therapy. went to a camp for three weeks of intensive rehabilitation. they injected him with emetics while he watched gay porn.
or lithium chloride or cyclophosphamide. he doesn't know. and when that didn't work they shot him up with male hormones.
and the ect explains the rest.
neural damage accounts for the aphasia.
an eeg.
we're looking for neurological damage that could have caused his symptoms.
a head trauma.
it wasn't an accident. it was before he met you.
you should ask him about it. (she is watching foreman and chase in ted's room) they have the results.
i'm gonna check out this new lesbian bar tonight.
you want to come?
we need to prep you for your angio.
we're gonna run a line through your femoral artery.
(she puts her fingers on his neck) i don't think so. his heart rate seems normal.
protracted hypotension could have induced his heart attack. also explains the syncope.
p.o.t.s. can be brought on by a viral or bacterial infection such as mono.
hey how are you feeling?
the bartender?
trust me she's not straight.
the guy walked in with his bride. it took me a while to rotate my dish. it's unbelievable what he's doing to her.
he may love her but he needs to have sex with other men.
yeah it sucks what he's doing to her too but it's hardly the same. to be faithful to his wife our patient has to deny his identity. taub just needs to<U+0097>
it is easier to say no to dessert than to pretend you don't eat.
oh yeah. my life's a breeze.
you know what? i agree with you. my self-pity's optional. what about yours?
any incidents of dizziness? (they shake their heads) seizures? (they shake their heads again) blackouts?
no problems?
might i suggest a diagnostic test?
(holding up two porn magazines one gay and one straight) what's your pleasure?
then we'll have to give you a shot.
medically that's good news. (she pauses) are you feeling feverish? you're sweating.
you're not sweating.
and if the tumor's big enough his headaches and syncope.
bacterial infection?
good luck with that.
diabetes insipidus.
[voice over] endocarditis <U+0097> slow-moving infection in her heart throws clots to her brain.
(entering the conference room) sorry i'm late.
physical therapy. i left my phone in my locker.
we should x-ray for a facial fracture first. this could all be simple trauma.
did you transcribe the entire meeting? entering the cavernous sinus.
got rescheduled. injecting dye.
(looking at the monitor) no filling defects. don't worry. i'm okay.
clean. now the guy's starting to spike a fever.
i don't know. ten minutes. he was being questioned when he fell into the coma.
i'm asking for some time off.
obviously not.
