it's not gonna work.
and prove he doesn't need a team.
why not?
you wanna change his mind about something you need a more convincing argument than you promised.
where's the restaurant?
the one you said you were taking me to for lunch.
i'm sure it looked easier on youtube.
yeah you don't need a team. you can't even get arrested without company.
do you need help?
lemme get that.
will you let me just let me get it.
[resigned] i'll cover the bathroom.
is there any other kind?
there's a sale on liquid tide.
no no i wouldn't put you in that position. what does the diary say?
if it was you'd be quoting not summarizing.
we can stop swabbing. her clich<e9>s are getting healthier.
antidepressants don't cause fever.
so all you have to do is convince this kid that his girlfriend had a secret doctor and a secret stash and a secret life. it's been a while since a patient took a swing at you. can i watch?
[deep voice into phone] any attempt to contact the fbi or other law enforcement agencies or cuddy will be met with
[into phone] and a large coke. no ice.
[innocently] what happened?
[melodramatic] did someone kidnap your guitar?
your twelve-thousand-dollar 1967 flying v? or something?
i am flattered you would consider me this bold and brilliant.
[bright-eyed] me? nothing. but i'm sure the kidnapper wants what every kidnapper wants. to see you interview five to seven well-qualified fellowship candidates.
you were bouncing ideas off a janitor.
i don't believe you.
[innocently] i don't have it. although i did hear some plangent strumming from under that couch earlier.
wow. this kidnapper isn't just bold he's diabolical. i guess he realized he probably shouldn't give it back to you until after you've had the interviews.
i got a page.
they called a code.
[into phone] yeah in the end they released the hostages. how's that working for you?
[into phone] once again i am in awe of the kidnapper's tactical brilliance.
[into phone nervous] it's a telenovela. i'm learning spanish.
[into phone panicked] are you erasing my tivo? [pleading] house not the season finale!
[into phone] do you know what terrorists do when you don't negotiate? [threatening] they terrorize.
[in mock-disgust] oh my god.
this guy means business. or guys. could be could be multiple could be multiple guys. or a gal. who knows? all i can say is this reeks of boldness.
you ever tighten a guitar string really really slowly?
past the point it can handle the strain? it makes this weird sound.
almost like a scream.
i thought this was gonna be fun. i mess with you you mess with me. eventually you give in. but you've shown a startling lack of humor which got me thinking.
what's the real reason you won't hire a team?
then hire three people and let 'em sit on their asses.
three years ago you hired a team. what's changed?
[dr. phil-son] what's changed is you hired a team. you connected with a team. you worked with a team. and you lost a team.
you fall in love you get married. fifty percent chance it'll end in misery. hiring employees can be even tougher. because you know eventually they're gonna leave.
you got hurt. get over it.
mr. lee i just have to check
sam? are you okay?
what're you doing here?
where's my patient?
you stole my patient.
give him back.
it's a she?
[shouting] it's a guitar! you took a human being!
what are you listening for the distant sound of screaming?
they don't know who he is!
they give him the wrong meds who the hell knows what's gonna happen?
house!
i wouldn't. someone named 17 thinks there could be listeria in the cream cheese.
you saw chase?
that's interesting.
chase took a job at the mayo clinic in arizona. a week ago. interesting... it wasn't foreman or cameron you saw but chase the one you fired.
it's always interesting when repressed guilt starts un-repressing itself.
interesting. so you're seeing cameron now?
so you want me to share the secret scanning techniques i learned in nepal? unfortunately the monks made me swear a blood oath. where was she?
which won't work unless the tumour's enormous which you know which means you're here because these visions are freaking you out.
yes. yes why are you merging cameron and chase? we should find out before the next time you see her when she'll be black.
no. but since she's not a dead cat it is scientifically impossible for her to be in two places at once.
she just called me from arizona. [dials a number and turns the phone around so house can see the number.] notice the area code <U+0096> 480. they put an offer on a place in scottsdale. [the phone is ringing.] do you want to talk or should i? i guess we could both talk. although they're engaged and if you're staying in touch you might want to buy them... [house hangs up the phone with his cane.] maybe it's not repressed guilt maybe it's just panic. right now you've got enough fellows to build a rail road. but you're going to have to narrow that room full of numbers down to three people.
i think you're going to choose people for reasons that have nothing to do with their skills. i think you're going to choose people just because you can't stand them. because if you like them well that's just stressful.
you do have residual...
you freaked...
because you knew it meant...
i think chase followed her. she's been a senior attending in the e.r. the last three weeks. a blonde senior attending to be accurate.
he's at new york mercy he's been there a month. [house looks surprised.] did you see foreman?
(obviously uncomfortable) i love the 'team' thing by the way.
teamwork. collaboration. all for the greater good....
interestingly the rain in spain doesn't actually fall in the plain all that much.
(frustrated) go ask him.
there is a potential toxicity with the experimental treatment....
good times.
technically it's cancer of the pigment cells the same cells that give your iris its color.
house.
there is a chance by removing the eye get the primary tumor and three courses of radiation that could...
more likely months.
we can manage the pain.
house!
(exasperated and angry) you can't let a dying man take solace in his beliefs.
everybody lies. some for good reasons some for bad. this would have been a fantastic reason to lie!
why can't you just let him have his fairy tale? if it give him comfort to imagine (stops and turns to house) beaches and loved ones and life outside a wheelchair....
it's over. he's got days maybe hours left. what pain does it cause you if he spends that time with a peaceful smile? what sick pleasure do you get in making damn sure he's filled with fear and dread?
you don't know there's nothing. you haven't been there.
yes. detroit. the afterlife. same thing.
don't assume anything.
don't fall into that trap.
(takes a moment to process the question) burned his hand pretty good. his heart stopped for nearly a minute. but your cohort managed to... restart it. but... he has not regained consciousness. (continues with forced cheer) so... (checks the file) since i have you all here we should probably talk about your actual patient.
clear fluid from the lungs indicates that it's probably not cancer so it would be nice if we could come up with a new idea.
you're an idiot. you nearly killed yourself.
you wanted to kill yourself?
no. but he doesn't have cancer. we think it might be eosinophilic pneumonia. (refusing to be distracted from his rant) maybe you didn't want to die but you didn't care if you lived.
no. he's dying. you've already had two near-death experiences.
he... died almost an hour ago. apparently it's bad to electrocute yourself within days of suffering massive internal injuries. why did you need to talk to him? did you... see... something?
house? what did you see?
brennan. nothing-you-don't-want-to-talk-about-it or nothing...
house you gotta talk about this.
i already did. (frustrated) just looking at you hurts. (takes his chart and scribbles) i'm going to order up some extra pain meds.
[unsure what house wants this time] can i... help you?
you have a grandpa walt?
what is this sudden obsession with the afterlife?
and you want me to...?
because...?
the one you don't believe exists.
and you think you can tap into her subconscious memory by tapping into her hallucination.
you're quite impressed with yourself right now aren't you?
take your time.
sure what could possibly go wrong?
house who is this guy?
number ten scalpel for initial incision. glad you're here house.
yeah it is. stop worrying about the power play.
you're threatened by foreman and feel the need to impress cuddy. the only thing that's relevant is foreman is a good doctor. he can help you lighten the load.
who is this guy?!
i like him.
house what is going on?
lesion on the liver. cystic or solid?
well you certainly did the right thing by coming to me.
an authoritative oncologist.
i've been scanning literature very interesting study in sweden. apparently giovannini's patients mimic whoever they think's in charge.
i am in charge of our relationship.
you would pick up my laundry if i asked you to.
oh i wouldn't do that to you.
are you putting ky jelly on his phone receiver? an exploding snake in his drawer?
don't. don't stoop to his level.
you don't have to make him miserable. just... make him think that he's won.
i said think he's won. find some other way to soothe his ego. the thing's big enough. you must be able to find some corner to polish.
where were you?
so what if it's house?
there is no job at mount zion.
well if house said it it must be true.
[into phone] i was wondering when you'd grow bored of avoiding my calls.
[into phone] where are you?
[into phone] either you're sprawled naked on your floor with an empty bottle of vicodin or collapsed naked in front of your computer with an empty bottle of viagra. please tell me which because chase has another pool going.
[into phone] hallucinations. damn! i shouldn't have bet on the viagra.
[into phone] my god. you're actually at the cia.
[into phone] recommended dose is twenty-five milligrams per meter squared. they do a background check on you?
[into phone] they did a background check on you they did a background check on your friends.
[into phone] that... that's not true. i've never been to afghanistan. house?
[quietly] he's consulting for the cia.
seriously. call langley and ask for extension 35... [frowning] 3536?
[fumbling on his desk] there's definitely two threes. i-i wrote it down. i have it somewhere.
okey-doke.
why are you punishing me worse than him?
(working on the ever-present paperwork) who?
the bay of pigs was a daring triumph.
all your ideas.
stab in the dark here. is she pretty?
she's a 'c' cup.
a 'd' cup? (beat) if she's no good just fire her.
(double-takes) wow!
either that's actual guilt or i've got to see this woman.
(voiceover) well it's great how he rebounded...
... from that setback.
he didn't tell you about the... well it's his right. the records were sealed. personally i think he was just tapping his foot and reaching for the toilet paper. obviously it was a witch hunt.
no. literally a witch hunt. dr. house is a practicing wiccan. it's a beautiful religion. it's very caring.
hairy palms too?
that's cute. you have a crush.
thirteen's pretty. you're obviously okay with her.
the bitch is pretty.
ask her out.
no. the one that's making you an idiot. the story of life. boy meets girl boy gets stupid boy and girl live stupidly ever after.
pretty girl kill again?
we're gonna get caught.
where'd you get those keys?
what?
his name's lou.
(dryly) finally. we have video evidence.
can i see that again?
no just the part where she leans forward. i think you can see through her dress.
you... thought... that was a good idea?
(laughs) just... enjoy.
well you're protected. foreman seems immune.
did he become an idiot around chase?
wait a minute. rewind that. was that thirteen? (grins chuckles) wow!
every guy is that guy.
what is this - semantics here? okay... all guys are that guy.
you know i'm beginning to doubt that.
you've got a problem.
you hire beautiful girls enslave them...
...force them to be around you because you don't know how to have an actual relationship. if they're qualified keep them. if they're not fire them... and ask them out.
thirteen...
no my point is she's about to enter your office so you should shut up!
apparently.
you knew they'd get paged?
they're both single it's still legal in the blue states.
you know in some cultures hiring people to steal someone's underpants is considered wooing. you should move there. because here it's just you know creepy.
this is beneath my skills.
you'd have to irradiate him first. if they're right about the blood you'd be destroying his immune system for nothing. [house stares at wilson.] which could be a good thing does he have a really crappy life?
five - all. [house throws the ball into the centre and they start playing again.]
stopped by the lab. your mutinous team is starting to worry about life on pitcairn island. all your biopsies are clean.
patient's scheduled for irradiation at nine. [sits down.] you risked your life again. you couldn't be sure he had amyloidosis.
you did one test it was negative.
well then by all means flood your body with possibly lethal blood.
of course you're type ab. universal recipient you take from everybody.
how do you know... what blood type i am?
no no no no no. did you test my blood for something? why would you test my blood for something?
who the hell chats about their blood type? you had to have tested me.
you're about to run out of here aren't you?
i screwed up a diagnosis.
[stands] diagnosed a guy with adenocarcinoma three months ago. told him he had six months.
he didn't get worse. i re-checked everything. biopsy was a false positive. harmless lesions caused by talc inhalation.
why would you use that word?
most people would say good possibly great. why aren't you able to just enjoy ?
i got your new test results back.
dr. house
i really don't need the consult.
[happily] mr. mckenna i can't believe i'm able to say this but you're cancer-free. the biopsy looked like adenocarcinoma but it wasn't. harmless lesions on your lungs. you're fine.
[waving his hand at house] no it's-it's i know this must come as a shock but i've double-checked the labs.
i uh i would have thought the living would mean more than the expenses.
a profit-seeking entity released this?
truly a mystery. why would anyone do something just to aggravate people?
[annoyed] probably because they were in the second drawer in a manila envelope under a book and you put them on top of my desk.
[denying] there are other people i write checks to. i do have cable.
i handed the guy a death sentence!
i gave him three months of misery!
i can't apologize enough. to you to your family. there may not be any technical liability here but
you're ripping it up because you think it would be wrong to take money from me?
[shocked] you're out six thousand
i ruined three months.
[confused] you're suing me not for the wrong diagnosis but for the right one? have you spoken to a lawyer?
kinda sticks in your head doesn't it?
what sort of a lawyer tells his client he's got a case because he's going to live?
i don't think this guy even has a law degree.
[looks accusingly at house] i think he has a medical degree.
[mad] i'm trying to take responsibility!
and lend it to you? you have to control everything. how come you're going around asking everyone who you should fire?
you like games because you can control them.
you like what's interesting never mind if it's real or good
life just happens and that scares the hell out of you!
[even louder] you think you can avoid pain!
you don't want to face it any more than my patient does! dying's easy. living's hard!
[to house] stop playing games and do your job.
honesty?
oh i thought that was our thumbs.
i'm sorry i missed rehearsal. am i taking the truth is good side? don't you usually take that part?
you are so full of love or something. [gestures for house to pay up] when you care about someone <U+0097>
i stand corrected and may i say it's been a real pleasure chatting with you. [directs house's attention back to the scan] sila's clean surgical margins looks clear. no lymphadenopathy no masses no nothing. it's not cancer.
what's with the secret santa? you trying to bring them together?
with gift giving?
aside from the trojan horse gifts don't usually <U+0097>
[thinks about it for a second] uh a sweater.
she loved it.
i gave her some cash and
you gave them all your name?
what happens when they find out?
[nods] what happens when they find out?
i've been looking for this all morning.
[puts the iphone back into his pocket and raises an eyebrow] you left the present sitting on your desk?
they're gonna know it's from you.
[blinks at that overwhelming explanation and gets up to dump his plate] have you ever considered channeling your powers to i don't know bring peace to the mid-east?
but if they ever got it you could screw it up.
you're surprised? that's the sort of crap that happens when you mess with people's heads.
nowhere i just know it hurts you.
what did you get for christmas?
[sighs] christmas deaths in a hospital nothing more depressing. no one ever wants to go in the patient's room even the candy stripers leave them alone. [shivers from the cold]
that sounds horrible.
[unconvinced] you tell people the cold hard truth all the time. you get off on it.
[nods sarcastically] the angels of christmas have finally given house a present he can appreciate.
patient had to die but <U+0097>
it's christmas! it's a reindeer.
who cares?
you could. things don't care.
happy solstice house.
she said she cares about other people? what a poser. kub is clean. you don't like her because she's a psychiatrist.
never before has a profession been so decried by someone who needed it so badly.
enlarged mediastinal node.
probably but we can't confirm it without a biopsy.
we can't biopsy.
she can't biopsy that node without a surgical team and an or.
no thanks.
that makes sense.
i said it first.
i was being mature.
how dare you? the x-rays don't show any other abnormal nodes.
the health department. they frown on topless oncology. you're going to do a physical?
of course he is. he likes her. big shock spaghetti sauce doesn't work as a lymph tissue stain. i'll try... the coffee.
that's house's version of courtship.
she's the perfect woman for him. willing to literally go to the end of the earth for her career making her unavailable for a real relationship. and she's afflicted with a mysterious illness.
we're going to be here all night.
okay take a deep breath... and insert the needle into the node.
[mutes the microphone.]you used her name.
you need to pull back on the syringe. [cate tries to pull but nothing happens.] you need to pull harder. [cate does so and screams in pain as the syringe fills with some sort of yellow liquid.]
are you okay?
i have never heard you ask a patient that question. you've never asked me that question and you've seen me fall down a flight of stairs drunk. you've slept with her.
no you somehow you've been intimate with her. why are you following me?
no you are definitely following me.
out to lunch.
or a sandwich.
so can human beings.
i'm leaving now. [walks away.]
are you going to follow me into my car?
okay look. the reason i haven't told you is [runs off leaving house just standing there watching.]
it should be ready now. [cate look in the microscope. wilson has a split screen and is looking at the same thing.] try increasing the magnification on the camera. [cate does so.]
you're checking up on me not house?
two out of three good qualities clear majority.
hold there. [cate stops adjusting.] makes you think he's secretly nicer than he seems?
do you always insult your doctors?
[smiles.] no wonder he likes you. based on this slide you do not have cancer.
i do see some inflammation which could mean
cate? you all right?
your other kidney.
[notices something on house's desk.] is that my wallet?
you didn't touch the cash but you took the receipts?
you don't need them. [holds up a paperclip.]
and where are we going?
why am i here?
she doesn't have a name. it's some sort of birth defect.
your mama. [elevator opens they walk out.] you need to run a kidney function test.
[to waiter.] a bottle of the bordeaux and some sparkling water.
damn. thought i lost you when i walked backwards through my own footprints in the snow.
better leave if you see her it'll be cheating.
because they hate me.
did you ever consider being happy for me?
girls are good house. and you know it. you solved your case because you cared about that girl.
i closed the deal. i just like her.
you knew your patient hated having cold feet because you did a physical exam because you liked her.
it starts with warm feet but leads to other things. your mom and i will explain when you're older.
but you don't care about her.
[gets up and kisses her.] hi.
i call her amber. was she on your list?
amber and i have a lot in common.
bette davis - another strong assertive woman.
[acting mournful] yes. go 'way.
hundred bucks.
[interrupts] we're at four months.
i was wrong okay? i thought you'd be upset. i thought you'd track me down in the hallways and...
she's not needy. i don't need needy.
are you gonna talk to her?
i've broken the pattern house. which is why this has a chance. i know you're too suspicious to accept that without getting out your ruler and your calipers and your scanning equipment. so go ahead. get it out of your system.
[to amber apologetically] i put a different restaurant in my date book. i'm firing my assistant.
if we ever get seated.
no no i uh...
she tends to treat ev... [notices house sipping amber's drink] she tends to treat every event like it's the last copter out of saigon.
she has an annoying quality. perhaps even two. if i was perfect i would date perfect.
it's annoying but she's good at it.
no apparently i moved in with you.
[interrupts] house you're right. why not? why not date you? i-i-it's brilliant.
we've known each other for years we've put up with all kinds of crap from each other and we keep coming back. we're a couple!
amber is exactly what i need and you would agree if you weren't mired in self-loathing topped with a thin crust of megalomania.
house you're right.
[dryly] hard to imagine such a mythical creature.
[correcting] i started seeing her four months ago.
[defensively] because i knew how you'd react and i knew you wouldn't pay me anyway!
she wasn't needy. she was in a... bad situation. there's a difference.
wait a minute. wait a minute. why are you doing this? every time i agree with you you find a new argument. what are you trying to avoid?
well if you'd looked at me with those flashing eyes before i was involved... pfch! [heading towards his office] c'est la vie. and... i use the french because... you're an ass.
excellent disguise house.
she's pretty. she's funny. maybe she's a little more...
[firm] ... aggressive than you'd expect from me. but... i'm happy. can't i just enjoy what that feels like for a while?
wow!
so you're going to acknowledge that people can change?
you think i've changed or amber's changed?
[pointing at house] then you've changed.
[flabbergasted] do you know what this means?
my world could expand. i could form a long-term connection that isn't with you. and since you put the darkest possible construction on everything you could end up losing a friend. you've thought of all this.
and yet you're going along with it. [shivers a bit] are you being... self-sacrificing?
shabbat shalom house.
i don't know how to deal with him when he's being reasonable.
no crazy is what house would normally do in this situation... swap your lubricant with superglue.
this is his way of accepting us.
[laughs.] uh no. you two are like dogs circling each other in the park. [looks at amber.] and i say that with all the love in the world. you need to sniff each other's butts bare your teeth and arrive at some strange detente. otherwise you'll end up biting each other's eyes out. again with all the love in the world.
i'm gonna piss off one of them and they both scare me. [motions for cuddy to make the call.]
you're reading his performance review?
[looks disappointed.] no i... i want to hear it.
it was my fault i had to take a shower.
[slurring somewhat.] are you trying to get me drunk? [house smiles wilson laughs.] what time is it?
ooh... she'll kill you.
great then she'll kill me. if i get if i get any more drunk then i'm... it... might not work. if you uh know what i mean.
[shocked.] they told you? wait why do you want to get amber angry?
no no no. you said you approved you said you were taking the high road. for how long the first exit? [house's phone rings.]
because i thought i was out having fun with a friend. i didn't know the drinks had subtext. i got to get home. [puts some money on the bar and leaves.]
where is she wrong? [house hangs he's head.] what were you going to tell me?
you're punishing me?
i'm not going to tell her.
you're my friend.
don't sulk.
[shrugs.] whatever.
i won't tell amber.
[surprised.] do you?
why do they think you do?
why would you swap your blood? what are you afraid they'll find?
[looks confused.] is this some clever practical joke that i'm not aware of?
[suddenly getting it laughs.] that's brilliant. [house smiles.]
i'll get my shoes. [turns to walk away but stops.] so we don't need to talk about...
so you're going to keep screwing...
[sighs.] i'll get my shoes.
my back. my back is killing me.
amber's damn mattress.
are you being sarcastic? because we are buying one.
we're buying a mattress for us.
what the hell are you doing?
i like the pillow top.
how much is it?
and what about <U+0096>
i don't know. you think
fingers crossed.
so am i getting the hard mattress or do i have to go to my job interview?
you really?
[calling from the store] you were so wrong. she's letting me choose.
really? sounded like you choose. i suppose it's possible she meant house is soooo so wrong.
amber doesn't do passive-aggressive.
he'd of gotten better at the hospital. it's not a trap.
house look she's <U+0096>
what?
i thought that's the one you wanted.
because [laughs] is this a trick question?
i got the one you wanted because i love you.
what? take care of you?
she told me to get the one i want.
but not the numbness.
i want a waterbed.
i've always wanted one. i know it's ridiculous. it's just there's something nice about the thought of being rocked to sleep in water. [pause] no mocking? no freudian analysis of how the waterbed is really a great big vagina i want to crawl into?
no. it's a whole thing. you need special sheets and insurance and <U+0096>
most adults don't go through life the way you do house indulging our every whim.
and yet i am. you?
amber'll think it's stupid.
i can't sleep. i hate the waterbed.
no. it's awful. we're returning it tomorrow.
me too. i hope they'll take it back.
you saw thirty people flying into glass and metal.
you're concussed. you don't know what you saw and you don't know when you saw it. a week ago you noticed a symptom in a soap star.
but your brain obviously thinks it happened last night. wires are crossed.
because you were drunk.
did you just forget his name?
you don't think it's <U+0096> [house motions for wilson to get the crutch nearby for him. wilson grabs it and hands it to house.] a little weird that there's both a giant crash and a simultaneous mysterious symptom sighting? [house realises something.]
you mean like the hand of god reaching down and screwing with you?
[moves the bus driver's shirt open a bit more revealing the bruise is in the shape of a seatbelt.] indicative of wearing a seatbelt. it's just a bruise.
you saw the bus driver exhibiting the initial stages of a seizure and didn't bother telling him to pull over?
you're taxing an already injured brain. it's like telling him to walk it off after a broken ankle.
is this really working?
why did you get so drunk at five in the afternoon alone?
[to chase who appears on the other side of house.] when he's hypnotized can he lie?
[to chase] is he lying?
what are you running away from?
amber's there? you've got amber in your head?
well she better have her clothes on.
say what out loud?
what's going on in there?
you were hallucinating. you're getting an mri.
[monitoring the test.] stop fidgeting.
there's edema and localized swelling in the section of the temporal lobe that controls short-term memory. also the penis size cortex is set to pathetic. what didn't you say out loud?
when you were under hypnosis you were talking to amber?
seriously what were you hiding?
you want to see everyone naked. why would you hide that?
why would i be upset that you're treating my girlfriend like you treat every other woman on the planet unless...you're not? unless it's deeper than that. you weren't objectifying her.
you have feelings for her. [pauses as he looks at the screen] this is bad.
why? why this guy? you want patients with weird undiagnosed symptoms? you get five files like that on your desk every morning and you'd never risk your life for them. [house turns around.] why is this guy so special so that you become batman?
you should sit down.
and blow out your heart. how many did you take?
what?
you almost kill yourself and all we're getting is drug-induced fantasies.
she's probably working. she's... she's been on call. [looks at his watch.] i called her... [starts to realise.] she didn't call... i... i... how could she...
[vo] previously on house.
taxing an already injured brain.
[barely audible] oh my god.
[to the attending] why didn't you call me?
move her.
[still grief-stricken] why was she on the bus?
why were you with her?
okay. okay.
wait wait wait! protective hypothermia.
her heart's already damaged. if you restart it it'll keep racing shoot off free radicals and kill her brain. we ice her down put her on bypass until you've diagnosed her.
it gives you more time to find a diagnosis. house this is amber!
[begging] please.
[vo] and... action.
you look beautiful.
[laughs nervously] i've never done this before.
[sighs weakly] she's right. you need to sleep.
[perking up a little] amber. amber. it's me.
[quietly] it's gonna be okay. i'm here with you.
that's what you found? negative tests? i could have told you she doesn't do drugs.
sh-she'd have to be an addict to take enough for it to damage her heart. i'd know.
no we've been over this. starting her heart could cause brain damage could burn out the heart muscle.
[frustrated] yes we can get a diagnosis by letting the disease run rampant until it kills her. if it's spreading we need to slow this even more. we've gotta cool her down further.
[decides to humour him] amber doesn't even drink sherry. house. can we get back...?
is this the place?
you seemed into her?
[in disbelief] how did you see the rash down there?
we had dinner with a friend last week. we walked their dogs. i guess she could've gotten a tick.
[stepping forward] wait a minute wait a minute! if we're wrong restarting her heart could kill her. run blood cultures first.
[firmly] we are not starting her heart until we're one hundred percent certain.
what are you... what are you doing?
she's up to eighty degrees!
no you're not! there's still time to undo this cool her back down.
her eeg's slowed.
amber. amber.
well done. we still don't know what it is but you just let it spread to her brain!
[vo mad] this is exactly what i said would happen! it's in her brain now!
that wouldn't be there if you hadn't...
[yelling] this was not your decision to make! you went behind my back. you went behind house's back.
house if this is some other infection the steroids will trash her immune system.
[shaking his head] you can't do this.
[struggling to remain calm] cuddy's right. i was afraid to do anything. i thought if everything just stopped it would be okay.
not everything. before you warm her up... you said you wanted to try deep brain stimulation.
what if it's not the rash? what if you noticed the rash in the ambulance or when we were putting her on bypass? what if there is still something else stuck inside your head?
[co] can't hear who?
who was talking? is amber there?
increasing from three to five volts. sending impulse.
who are you calling?
i was on call.
amber was home.
[vo] does she seem sick?
what color is it?
nothing else?
where are you going?
is that it? the flu? is there any rare complication?
what?
the crash destroyed her kidneys. her body couldn't filter the drugs. she ods on amantadine. explains the heart the liver. [cheering up] we just need to start her on dialysis and flush the drugs out.
what? what's wrong?
amber.
[choking] we should call time of death.
it would be cruel. don't... [can't finish]
wake her up to tell her that she's... that she's...
[gently] hey.
you're in the hospital.
yeah. do you remember what happened?
no. no it's not your fault. it's not your fault.
[deep breath] you had tachycardia. it's complicated by complete renal failure. the tachycardia degenerated into v-fib... followed by hepatic failure.
[nods fighting tears] yeah.
[unable to ] i love you.
just a little longer.
i don't think i can do it. [sobs]
it's not okay. why is it okay with you? why aren't you angry?
