fire her.
then stop being such a wuss.
i was trying to bury it a little but yeah. you've got to eliminate either the challenge or the reaction.
yeah. this problem will go away on its own.
you want us to work for foreman?
well what happened to them?
[incredulous] you actually fired your girlfriend?
you really do know how to woo.
[to cameron] it would be interesting. we could work together.
that's one of the reasons it'll be interesting.
utterly incomprehensible. and of course i'm talking about you firing your girlfriend.
cameron and i work together.
why don't you just tell her you were wrong?
we're just helping out because <U+0096>
[sitting] dibala thinks it was an assassination attempt. polonium like the russian guy in london.
no history of asthma or heartburn.
assassination attempt through dioxin poisoning. it's hard to detect. fits.
it's our best guess. the olestra here binds to the poison flushes it out of your system.
i'm australian.
most people don't notice it. yeah i-i kicked around there for a while.
actually a year of seminary.
uh you're a follow-up?
who took her?
i'm very sorry but i can't discuss other patients. you should talk to a lawyer talk to the un...
i'm sorry. [he leaves.]
mask at 15 liters.
[to nurse] streptokinase heparin.
ebola? marburg?
trypanosomiasis?
hey! don't let him in there! [he rounds the corner to the room as two gunshots are heard.]
[helping get joseph away from ruwe] hey! [to ruwe as bass picks up the gun] you all right?
no.
you need a lawyer. you can get a court-appointed. they can help you.
you did a stupid terrible thing. but given the circumstances with your wife you could get a reduced sentence.
then who was she?
he wasn't going to hurt me.
come here.
i'm thinking the x-rays indicate a lack of hilar adenopathy which rules it out.
no. [house looks at him and shakes his fist several times.] because [house opens his mouth and points his finger inside.] he [he closes his mouth around the tip of his finger.] smokes?
so some other infection.
the man that tried to kill you he said that you were preparing a massacre.
in a way that's being called genocide.
what about your youth labor league?
how's it going?
how's it going with you? it worried me when you joked about letting that man shoot dibala.
you can't want to kill anyone especially not your own patient.
no it's completely unnatural. only psychopaths can kill other people without having some sort of breakdown.
even when it's justified.
no. so we have to move on. infection perhaps autoimmune
yes i just told you.
he just started spiking a fever.
i'm with foreman. we would have seen fungus balls on the head ct.
let her go.
allison.
if you touch my wife again i'll kick your ass out into the street. i don't care who you are.
she's a better person than you are. [he starts for the door.]
[turning back] cockroaches? what are you going to do about them?
and your choice is to send bands of drunk crazed children to massacre an entire people?
why are you doing this now?
i'll get you the blood.
you're just gonna ignore the test?
going through the main stem bronchus into the right upper lobe. [foreman joseph bass and others enter.] get them out of here.
[looking at it on the monitor] cauterizing.
yeah.
i'm going back in.
another bleeder. i can get it.
god there's a dozen. [he and foreman pull the equipment away. to cameron] shock him.
we ran it twice.
follow-up on a clinic case.
you think this is really important <U+0096>
[making full eye contact with foreman for the first time] cameron had nothing to do with it.
he was going to kill the sitibi. every last one of them.
[standing and talking quietly] all the good we've done every life we've saved it would have meant nothing if we just sent him off to kill hundreds of thousands of people. look at the news. the moderates are taking over. there's hope for peace talks. you tell the world that i faked this test dibala becomes a martyr. the massacres begin.
if the cops are going to come for me please warn me so that i can tell my wife first.
[his mouth moves for a moment with no sound. he shakes his head once almost imperceptibly.] no.
and we don't have more important things to do than satisfy everyone's idle curiosity?
mom died from kidney failure caused by type one diabetes which has been ruled out.
just keep it clean simple. we did a test that called into question our initial diagnosis so we changed our mind.
why would they do that? it's a routine lab test.
yes and if you brought that up it'd certainly make for a lively debate about the morality of murdering murderers. but since you burned the only evidence of that.
you're protected. the decision was a coin flip. there was no right or wrong answer. the body's underground 8000 miles away. nobody can prove anything.
so what do you want?
we're just reviewing the dibala case. making sure we didn't miss anything.
what happened?
got to be some sort of systemic infection.
we should know for sure by the morning.
i've got to go. foreman needs more help with the m&m prep.
[shakes his head.] we can handle it. i'll see you at home later.
go home. get some rest. 'cause i'm going to be waking you up as soon as i get home.
so?
so i'm not an idiot. i obviously made sure the cadaver i got the sample from had the same blood type.
how far off?
dibala didn't die of high cholesterol. why would anyone even bother to compare the two reports?
we could claim the blood analyzer broke.
so the numbers are off it's weird. who cares? if it comes up just act surprised like it's some irrelevant curiosity.
hey. [they kiss.]
yeah sorry. i needed to get in early. i didn't want to wake you.
i told you there's nothing wrong.
i'm not.
no i'm denying that there's anything to deny.
there's a problem with the dibala m&m. the hdl numbers on one of his early blood panels don't match a later panel.
yeah... [starts walking again.] it's no big deal. cholesterol didn't have anything to do with his death but you know after being let go from mercy and then that thing with thirteen's drug trial foreman's paranoid about people questioning the way he handled the case.
i know. don't tell him i told you. he doesn't want to show any signs of weakness especially now that house is claiming he wants him to stay in charge.
got biopsies of the mucosa and the sub-mucosa moving towards the pylorus.
he's seizing again.
how's the icp?
then what the hell is it?
seizures stopped but he hasn't regained consciousness. no sign of any masses in his stomach or esophageal lining and he's still accumulating subdural and peritoneal fluid.
then it has to be some sort of infection.
only because he was treated for it and got worse.
unless it's a drug-resistant strain.
everything's negative. we obviously missed something.
no doctor noticed a thrashing kid?
i gave him statins.
if they ask about the cholesterol just say i prescribed a statin and forgot to put it in the chart.
it's not a problem with the records. it's a problem with my record keeping. there's no way anyone can prove me wrong.
i saw an open cart. just took it.
'cause i'm trying to get you off the hook.
how?
did it work?
what about polyarteritis nodosa? it can occur in kids.
okay you come up with something better. [everyone looks up at house.]
[turns back to foreman.] there was some inflammation in the skin biopsy plus he's got elevated diastolic pressure.
well barely is more than not barely. [they look at house again.]
we need to talk.
it's about dibala.
foreman can't present the case at the m&m.
it's not the time.
the anticentromere antibodies test. the test that caused us to change the treatment from blastomycosis to scleroderma... it wasn't...
where'd you find it?
the niacin bound chromium supplements. [foreman gives chase a blank look.] it was right on top of the file. you don't know about it?
one of dibala's previous docs was prescribing ultra high doses of niacin bound chromium to boost his hdl.
so it gives us something to point to. we can explain the wide variation between the hdl numbers. we're safe. we're covered. you really didn't request the info?
how'd you find it?
and what now?
you don't think i should be fired?
[stands up.] whether you want to be in charge or not. you are and you always will be. [tosses the ball to house who catches it then leaves. house puts the ball back on his desk.]
marfan syndrome brugada.
familial hypercholesterolemia.
i forgot my watch.
must be in the locker room. i'll be right back.
nothing.
send him home.
when he turns 70 he'll believe us.
you do the dad. i take it he had a sealed casket.
i forgot it. it's no big deal.
i felt like i was gonna have a panic attack. [sigh] i've crossed some line... and i'm having trouble getting back to the other side.
cameron will ask questions.
don't we just need the guy's consent?
not yet. but you're just in time to do the dad.
couldn't find any consistent genetic mutations across 15 areas between donny's ancestors possibly indicating there isn't one.
i thought he didn't want kids.
[reads] dear bleeding hearts since your patient's med history is a coincidence and he isn't... [the note is on post-its. chase looks at the back which is blank then flips the post-it up to reveal the rest of the note.]  sick i've gone back to school. back in 120 hours.
you're gonna ask the mom to consent to a bone marrow biopsy?
right. spike a ten-year-old's hip because grandpa was sick.
sorry. what?
there's no case. i had nothing to add.
i'm fine.
thanks.
you sure?
right. ah. [he clears his throat.] well it's-it's a... it's a very rare disorder that short-circuits the adrenals which short-circuits the heart.
it's... weh-well it's-it's complicated.
what?
[nods pompously] yes. so all we have to do now is write a prescription and uh have him pick up the pills.
hon. wake up.
i want to go tell cheryl that donny died.
they're nearly two hours away. i figure by the time i get there she'll be awake.
it's the sort of thing she needs to hear face-to-face.
everything's fine. why?
don't be. [he comes back and sits on the bed] i'm fine. really.
[quietly] yeah.
i love you too.
and his dad and his grandpa and <U+0097>
sinoatrial block.
could be metabolic. [he sees house looking at people passing the office.] you okay?
dentist looked at the tooth the guy pulled out. there was nothing wrong with it.
you can't connect bone cancer to the heart. house figure this can wait till the morning?
it's a power play. he'll be back tomorrow.
primary bone cancer isn't hereditary.
my theory is it's not bone cancer.
so i didn't do the gamma survey. is it bone cancer?
you should congratulate me for not wasting your time.
a couple of hours. [he starts to leave and turns back at the door.] you ever shoot anyone?
you ever kill anyone?
did they ever get over it?
did he get help?
what is it?
patient's lost bowel control. means we were wrong about h-san and it means he's getting worse. fast.
an autoimmune disorder could explain <U+0097>
bless me father for i have sinned.
i killed a man.
but it was the right thing to do.
sometimes in the operating room it feels like it. i'm a doctor.
why? tell me what's sacred about a dictator that kills hundreds of thousands of his own people.
is it just the slippery slope you're worried about? afraid that forgiving me for killing the worst person on earth sets a bad precedent? i promise... i won't tell anyone. [pause] just forgive me.
[on the verge of tears] then what do i have to do? what does god need me to do?
what and and go to jail for the rest of my life? what's just about that? i did the right thing. there has to be another way.
hey!
oh i-i forgot.
all right i... i needed to get wasted. i did. and now i'm better.
nothing.
the fall would explain lower leg damage but not the swollen hands.
it doesn't have to be rhabdo. the swelling could be also caused by deep vein thrombosis.
i'll test for everything. (he and foreman get up and leave)
he's and ass.
she already thinks i'm cheating on her.
sure. how was your day honey by the way i killed someone. if i tell her that's dumping a burden on her forever.
you can't leave. you lit a fuse you need to watch the bomb go off.
ck levels point to rhabdo.
except for the part where imaging shows no sign of muscle crush.
house what are you doing?
what did you really do last night?
we need to know about any drugs or alcohol anything that might have threatened your health.
it's a comic book right?
so what actually happened last night?
they ate what he ate. and what a hundred other healthy people ate. dig in. lunch is on the adams.
cardiac tamponade. drain the fluid now.
dropped to 50 systolic in three minutes.
well she didn't get ice. she got out in the lobby. she could have gone anywhere. let's start with for how long. fast forward.
stop. rewind. back. wherever she went she was only gone for like five minutes. she's holding something.
did jordan come to your room the other night?
allison calm down.
(walking down the hotel corridor) that was helpful. he'd be crazy to risk his marriage for a one-night stand with a teenager.
i'm not having an affair.
fine. he doesn't care about his marriage. what about his career? statutory rape would ruin it.
the guy's a comic book writer not a drug dealer.
she's on antiarrhythmics. amobarbital could stop her heart.
you're angry at me. you're taking it out on this guy 'cause you think he's lying to you too. and you're gonna kill our patient in the process.
we should call house.
heart rate's increasing.
could be lithium.
it's too soon to tell if the meds are gonna <U+0096>
100 other people ate those oysters. i ate <U+0096>
it's chase.
i'm not.
we lose patients sometimes. one of those patients... dibala... we didn't ac <U+0096> we didn't actually lose him. i killed him.
we're gonna be late for work.
[sighs deeply] you have no idea what i've been living with and what it means to hear you say that.
congratulations.
we're leaving the team and the hospital effective immediately.
we're just starting to think about new jobs where we want to live.
[nods] yes.
we're out the door.
thank you.
could be.
sounds like house.
are you saying i shouldn't do the angio?
you sure? because right now i'll basically do anything you ask me.
right after i take the patient to the phototherapy suite blast him in ultraviolet light and iv vitamins for his severe vitamin d deficiency.
so do you guys actually work together?
so do you uh watch her work?
you think you can escape the consequences but you can't. you don't get to make your own rules or morals.
just a nosebleed.
we were wrong. so was foreman.
we're just here to help foreman.
can we turn that off?
i don't care what he does. i don't care what you watch. i just think it's annoying that he pretends it's some beautiful life we should all be aspiring to.
left shift points to bacteremia.
meningococcemia's spread person-to-person. something you ought to think about next time you show up for work.
i'm just telling you what <U+0096>
i'm a guy. i look around every once in a while but i love my wife. i love the fact that she's the only one that i'm intimate with.
no part of you wants a life of actual commitment?
in other words you're committed except when you're not committed. doesn't work so well if you have a conscience.
you have a fever. means the antibiotics aren't working.
what were you wrong about?
i assume you've already dismissed the she loves me theory?
and as we've already established it's also possible that you're wrong.
[to someone in the or] let him drain then pack it with anesthetics and sterile gauze.
his sinuses are clear. antibiotics should work this time. why did you forgive me? i mean i'm-i'm glad. i'm grateful but i'm confused. you've been harder on the patient than you've been on me.
his liver's failing and his abdomen keeps filling with fluid so <U+0096>
sometimes you're just wr-rr-r-wrong. something genetic something in his family history we overlooked?
but if it's inflammation inside the bile channels sclerosing cholangitis.
she forgave me because i feel guilty.
and now you expect me to ask you what the too refers to.
you were barely involved in that case. she knows that.
you're wrong.
why are you doing this? why are you trying to screw things up?
passing the pancreatic duct...
you have no idea what he said.
house doesn't make my decisions. we're in the common bile duct.
can we magnify times five? [foreman adjusts the monitor.] that's not a gallstone.
you have strongyloides also known as threadworms. they disseminated all over your body causing all your symptoms.
most likely through sexual activity but we can't be sure.
two mebendazole pills.
you'll be fine. your liver too. go back to your lives.
you know this is the doctors' lounge.
[grabbing the file from lucas] why are you reading my charts?
your girlfriend... is a male porn star?
seriously?
i see the connection.
you're easily impressed.
been busy. got a backlog.
because it's personal.
thanks for the folksy wisdom.
suction him and get him on oxygen.
patient's lungs are severely compromised. liver's still failing.
which means it could be a hematological problem plus cardiomyopathy.
you're mad at house but you're not mad at me.
you blame house. not me.
what i did may be the worst thing i ever did. it may be the best. i'm either a murderer or a guy who stopped a mass murderer but i did it. me. and even if it destroys me i'd do it again today.
i'm not running away from what i did because you want to pretend i never did it.
getting through it.
yeah. [hank groans.] he's peeing blood. [monitor beeps] bp's rising.
charging. clear.
his body's completely giving out. charging. clear.
mebendazole can cause adverse effects but nothing like this.
hypopituitarism. could cause multi-organ failure if <U+0096>
perfect white count as well.
i want to be on the team.
i don't know.
i told house i want to work for him again. [she looks at him surprised.] stay on the team. you were always more into it than i was more interested in diagnostics. unless house was right about why you want out.
what're you so excited about?
meningitis.
[clearing his throat] ttp makes sense to me.
[getting up] she left. went back to chicago.
nope. [he walks away from foreman and opens the refrigerator studying the contents.]
i wasn't dating cameron.
[coming over] i know what you're doing and i appreciate it but i've got it under control.
and talking about it obviously made things so much better.
huh. looks great.
probably be on some long-term meds and he's about ten ounces lighter. other than that won't even know it's gone.
everything checks out less than a week.
[frowning] colors?
[checking sidas's eyes with a flashlight] mr. sidas do you know where you are?
[to a nurse] he's stroking. call the cath lab now.
blood flow's restored. [over his shoulder to house] there appears to be no permanent damage.
bad news is we took out his spleen for nothing.
wbc's normal.
standard tox screen. unstandard toxins don't show up on it.
maybe he's doing what he loves. delivering boxes was a childhood dream.
[in the bathroom a few feet from the kitchen] ibuprofen eye drops cough syrup.
[sticking his head out of the shower] you never asked me over before. why now?
and my wife left me?
no. but uh i'm okay. on both the food and friends.
but not without a fever.
yeah.
what you want names? [shakes head slightly] look you lost a friend. i get it. but i'm not kutner.
[gesturing behind himself] i'm gonna pretend there's something interesting over here so you'll shut up.
they're all old. nothing since '96.
marriage destroyed his soul. [he looks down and sees a vent with a loose cover. he kneels removes it and looks inside. he pulls out a bottle.] ooh. or maybe it was just the booze.
liver failure would explain all the symptoms. [house gestures with one tie.] party.
what do you want us to do?
i don't remember. so i guess i did. multiple myeloma.
no. that would be a sign that i need to talk to you about this. polycystic kidney disease?
well what if his cough is more than just a cold?
it's in his history and we found a new bottle of cough syrup in his medicine cabinet.
four to six hours a day until we see an improvement.
then we keep doing it until he gets a transplant.
nope.
why does everyone assume that everyone works in the exact same way?
[turning to face her] well what i want is for everyone to leave me alone. [elevator bell dings] how do i get that?
i think they've given you enough already.
you think i opened him up and didn't take out his spleen?
so it is ttp. i just didn't remove... all of his spleens.
i can outrun you. [house stops and turns toward chase.] sorry about the nose. and the eye. and the uh... eyebrow.
well if i thought that i wouldn't be apologizing.
everybody kept bugging me asking if i was okay.
[wincing then admitting it] pretty much.
maybe. but at least they're not talking to me about it.
cheers.
no gall stones. could be diverticulitis. (to the patient) have you eaten any seeds?
i assume house's money is on cancer.
(looking up at house from the or) you don't want a new case.
(looking up at them) wilson he's got global lung damage. means it's not fungal. it's pcp pneumonia.
he actually said he was a drug dealer?
could be sick sinus syndrome.
this is ridiculous.
in the lab there is significantly less chance of getting killed. you're too close. slow down.
you honestly think he doesn't have a gun in that car?
just... back off. [pause] hey well played with the watch by the way.
how much longer are we gonna keep lying to him?
so we're just having fun not getting even?
whoa whoa whoa.
patient went out came back worse than before. points us back to environmental tied to wherever he went.
[getting up] i'll do a lumbar puncture.
you knew we were following you?
right because you're a businessman. do you know how many junkies come into the e.r. every week with their brains melting?
look at his heart rate.
i know.
it's not an infection but it might be an autonomic nerve disorder.
we stuck a needle into his spinal bodies twice. his heart rate stayed normal. if we add that to his other symptoms...
you have a heart problem?
and stress. he's been in this game for a while. either he grew a conscience over the last few months or he's producing excess adrenaline.
we lost mickey just outside trenton.
most buildings there were built between 1920 and 1940. we're compiling a list of toxins most common <U+0096>
i get it. these guys are lowlifes. you want off the street.
he had a g.i. infarction caused by a clot in his superior mesenteric artery. we had to remove a foot of bowel.
guy's a hero. he's risking his life to put these dealers in jail.
how's it coming?
foreman's already started him on inhaled albuterol. chances are this case is over.
[sighs] we have to tell cuddy. we confess and beg her to take him back.
the drug dealers are running a green drycleaner?
the v/q scan last night showed a pulmonary aneurysm. explains the coughing blood. i did an embolization to stop the bleeding he then started up again this morning. three more aneurysms.
look there is no other job. he was just trying to get a raise. even if you gave him a little more money i know he'd stay.
we're okay with it. foreman is a good team leader. he deserves it.
[long pause] we don't. hughes-stovin is an autoimmune disease. once it's this advanced there's not much we can do. the aneurysms keep multiplying. eventually... one of them will rupture.
vitamin deficiency? she changed her diet a few months ago.
cardiac arrhythmia presenting as ear pain. very rare. cool.
your case presented a very interesting diagnostic challenge.
where are you?
what could he get his hands on to cause supraventricular tachycardia?
with what?
it was yesterday.
thirteen come on.
i'd give her a day. two days at the most.
no speckles on the mri. alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency?
even if we're right the liver's probably too scarred. we've got to list her for a new one.
i don't think the husband is the right blood type. even if he was he's not gonna give his liver now.
er ct'd him. no concussion no stroke no cortical degeneration.
could cause the excess hormones that could cause the rage and would elude the er steroid test.
[conspiratorially] what was that?
treadmill test was a bust. the guy's in unbelievable shape. we couldn't get his heart rate above 150.
if we can't re-create the cardiac event we can't prove hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
what about takayasu's arteritis?
bold move to skip straight to surgery.
right. we should remove his spleen without confirmation so he won't miss the big game.
isolating the gastroepiploic artery. [pause] nearly there. [pause] foreman come and take a look at this.
it's not lymphoma.
felty syndrome?
why would i?
i was here all night with thirteen monitoring our patient's iv blood thinners. [he tosses bally back to house.]
means we should just stick him back on his blood thinners and he should be okay to leave in a couple weeks.
so he's not injecting. but he could be getting them naturally <U+0096> paraneoplastic syndrome. the body produces antibodies which battle cancer which could also act like growth hormone.
there's no cancer. we scanned him head to toe. we checked blood smears for leukemia. we even ultrasounded his chest looking for breast cancer.
his insurance only covered 60% of inpatient expenses so he would only agree to the cheapest option.
i said i'd sew up the skin over the exposed bone. then i put him under got his thumb from the paramedics and reattached it. what's he gonna do? tell the judge that i harmed him by reattaching a vital digit?
it was his thumb. i couldn't just let him toss it in the trash to save a few bucks.
could be congenital thrombocytopenia.
it's a personal journal. i don't get putting your whole life online.
no. thrombin and von willebrand factor are normal.
wilson seemed to think it was a good idea.
it's not a beauty pageant.
oh come on. i'm not that good-looking.
so you attribute every relationship i've ever had to the height of my cheekbones?
this is ridiculous. women aren't as distracted by appearances as we are. they look deeper.
[runs his hand over his face and props it under his jaw. speaks with a fake american accent] i play video games. [he runs his tongue over his top teeth and makes a sucking noise.]
[snorts slightly] i wish bro.
i could tell by your hips.
she's on a semi-vegetarian diet. means she gets plenty of vitamin k. sj<f6>gren's is more likely.
sj<f6>gren's wouldn't inhibit the clotting enzymes infiltrate the kidneys <U+0096> explains everything.
relevant? no. interesting. [shrugs] i guess. there's nothing that she doesn't share. angry sex is overrated. how can he expect me to be aroused when i'm so pissed at him?
how good-looking am i? [thirteen turns and gives him a questioning look.] i'm not asking if you're attracted to me. i'm looking for an objective answer.
last night i acted like a complete tosser to prove to house that women don't go out with me for my looks. cost me a hundred bucks and my definition of myself. and women.
[has an epiphany] everything's physical.
no what if the patient's problem is a physical reaction not an emotional one? what if her lack of arousal had nothing to do with their fight? sj<f6>gren's would inhibit her normal secretions.
sorry for keeping you up. i thought it better not to wait till morning.
yeah. it's lucky you wrote about that.
not crazy. unusual to be so intimate with people you don't know.
[not looking at her] it recently ended.
lie flat on your back all the way.
is that what your relationship with taylor is like?
you need to lie flat for us to get the x-ray.
did you strain a muscle?
i've booked our patient in for heart surgery. i was doing a sialogram on her and she didn't want to lie on her back. that's a complaint you hear from people with heart valve issues. it fits. sj<f6>gren's damaged her heart causing her clotting problems causing her kidneys to fail.
well that and the cardiac echo i performed after she didn't want to lie down.
so we can replace the mitral valve with a pig valve or with a plastic one.
i know that you're on the fence about having kids but taylor really wants them. [taub looks at him.] it's in the blog. [taylor slumps back in his chair annoyed.] i'm afraid you two will need to agree on that decision earlier than planned.
[suspiciously] hello?
couldn't you just ask the love nymphs for the secret?
in. but you know him better than anyone. why do you need my help?
he openly brings prostitutes into the hospital and he gambles with bookies 'cause he's too lazy to go to the otb. and you're asking for some <U+0096> [he stops and laughs.]
he's reading the golden bowl.
yeah. no. no no he's not really reading it. [wilson is nodding.]
that book's at least 400 pages long. whatever he's reading is only half that thick.
he's not using his reading glasses.
he took the cover off the golden bowl and put it onto this other book so no one would know what he was reading. whatever it is he's ashamed of it.
it's cameron's favorite book. i don't even know what it's about.
got it. [he holds it aloft in triumph. as he opens it the cover comes off the front. the spine of the book says step by step.]
these are literal sermons written by a minister. loving thy neighbor even when thy neighbor's stereo is keeping you up at night. why would he read this?
you think he's sincere? you think that he's actually getting something out of this?
[closing the book and smiling] what a hypocrite. how can we use this in a cruel yet funny way?
well so what was the point?
your appendix burst. we had to remove it.
yes but apparently you've had this for some time. when your appendix burst it was like a dam giving way. the cells went streaming throughout your body.
well we're not actually sure what it'll do but the intention is to train your immune system to recognize and kill cells bearing the same malignant signature while leaving healthy cells alone. but as dr. foreman says it's experimental.
an exact prognosis is impossible.
is she being a good soldier or is she in denial?
or it could be a symptom. some lymphomas affect cognition.
hey sandy. [she looks up smiles then looks back at the computer screen.] can i borrow your car? [she looks at him.]
she gave me the keys.
she barely knows me. i've been deluding myself that i'm actually connecting with people.
[oozing smarm] hi. thirteen's giving our patient her third vaccine injection. she's responding well so far.
i called the author. he's got cartons of the thing in his basement.
that i knew some people who could benefit spiritually from the book.
[puzzled] no but <U+0096>
i'm not surprised she's tired. she's always been a night owl. just by treating her we've completely disrupted her schedule.
no she told me.
i'm not sure.
sign of liver disease?
you don't have lymphoma.
you're actually dying more quickly than we thought.
there isn't. she's told us and everyone else everything.
this is the wizard.
you'll still need a new heart valve and you'll be on meds for a few years but basically yeah. your odds are good.
do you think people can actually know each other better on the internet than face-to-face?
i don't know. people meet they like something superficial and then they fill in the blanks with whatever they want to believe.
i was the one that pursued her. maybe i was just filling in the banks. maybe... maybe the first reaction was right. we were just two people who were in proximity and found each other attractive and i ne - i never should have...
can i borrow your car?
x-rays confirm the fluid that almost suffocated her to death was from pulmonary edema.
that means she only had one or two drinks tops.
how'd you know?
his car has a flat tire. he's waiting for a tow truck.
two drinks is hardly a binge.
we'll get a c-13-pyruvate mri to check for cardiac lactic-acid levels.
house doesn't believe you got a flat tire.
fighting with the wife.
(looking at the monitor) we need thinner cuts.
i'm probably not the best guy to go to for marital advice.
punch in to the mitral valve.
(looking at the monitor) no <U+0097> no i'm serious. what is that?
she's not an intravenous drug user she has no tattoos and she doesn't have any scars that would indicate she's a cutter.
if it was an allergy she'd be getting better in the hospital not worse.
i'm placing a drop of nick's semen protein onto the skin. then i'll abrade it with a needle check for a rash in an hour or so.
blood in the urine.
but cancer could.
if i could i would have.
brain problems don't split your aorta.
what about dreaming about waterfalls running streams if you need to go to the bathroom?
even if we can get the equipment it takes hours for the initial mapping. if she has another seizure she could stroke out.
abby can you think of something specific?
doesn't matter. just make it a single image.
that's amazing.
does anything get you excited?
or star could be a white blood cell. leukemia?
(looking up at house) what do you think it means?
so now what do we do? start over? we obviously missed something.
kidneys are also failing. we add in polycystic disease could explain the dissection.
i was paged? [the receptionist looks toward the front door. cameron gets up from the bench where she has been waiting. she hasn't taken off her coat. she's holding a large manila envelope.] what are you doing here?
it's been on my to-do list. sorry.
not until we have a real conversation about our marriage.
we were working on it.
no you had a conversation with house then came back informed me i'd been forever poisoned by him and started packing.
a dictator who was committing genocide. you thought about doing it yourself.
right. because you're not toxic like i am. [he sneers slightly on the word toxic.]
did you ever love me?
the first time you slept with me was because you were on crystal meth.
not true. after that you refused to let it go further than just sex.
and that never changed. you broke off our vacation because i bought you a ring.
and then you almost called off our wedding because <U+0097>
<U+0097> you couldn't give up the idea <U+0097>
<U+0097> of having your dead husband's baby.
because even then you weren't sure about me. maybe if i was dying when you married me it would have been a bit different.
it's not only fair it's exactly the point. he was dying when you met him and he was gone just a year into the marriage. so it was all a honeymoon with him. and i could never match up to that. the first time reality intruded <U+0097>
just tell me the truth.
did you ever love me?
[calm] thank you for finally telling me.
i spent months wondering how i made it go bad. if you never loved me then <U+0096> then i didn't do anything wrong. [she starts to cry. he gets up and goes to her.] hey. allison come on. it's all right.
[puzzled] why not?
[quietly] i'm sorry.
i liked how i would wake up in the middle of the night you'd put your arm around me and you wouldn't even wake up. i liked watching you stand up to your dad at christmas when he yelled at your mom. how you didn't even know you were strong. but you were. what do you miss?
i'm gonna miss this too.
yeah.
(throwing a different file on the table) i'll see your bleeding ears and raise you a total muscular degeneration.
obviously it isn't or the e.r. wouldn't have called house.
i don't even know who frodo is.
no signs of hematoma. brain looks completely normal.
my uncle used to pretend he was king leopold.
(unaware that the mic was on) um sorry about that. you don't really think you're a knight do you?
let's get him out of there before he aspirates.
a lumbar puncture could confirm.
that's gonna take time and he's getting worse.
and abnormal electrical pathways in the heart which could cause seizures.
(looking at the monitor) it's not mrsa. it looks like some sort of clostridial organism.
there's hundreds. c. perfringens?
tetanus he <U+0097> he would have been inoculated against it.
they don't just fight for fun. they fight to prove their bravery.
you would say that.
no i just think you've never won one.
it's not mrsa.
poison ivy?
okay maybe it remotely fits but i'd rather go with scientific evidence than with your gut.
i'm giving him 12 ccs epinephrine.
(pushing the epinephrine into the iv tube) if it slows any more it's gonna stop.
and i told you. (he sighs)
we found clostridium bacteria in the skin samples.
but opportunistic if his immune system is depressed.
trichinosis from eating infected meat?
i liked him better when he was on vicodin.
(coming in from another room) bedroom as well. most dangerous thing in his medicine cabinet was dental floss.
do you honestly want to go back and tell house we didn't check every square inch of this place?
what the hell is this?
our knight is into some seriously creepy stuff.
you putting a hex on someone?
lead poisoning.
we had to shock it back into rhythm twice during the night.
the main markers of hemlock intoxication.
what exactly did we do? you do?
our patient's unhappy because she's suffering from an intestinal blockage.
what about herpes colitis? she picks up the infection from one of her partners. it takes root in her colon.
wait. you're gonna do it?
i need a list of all your sexual partners from the last six months.
your wife had an arrhythmia. the progression of symptoms from bowel to heart makes a parasitic infection most likely. since julia hasn't been out of the country<U+0097>
but either of you could have picked up a bug from one of your partners.
how many partners are we talking about? ballpark.
so why not just tell her that and close this whole thing up?
i <U+0096> i was.
stravinsky never groped my wife in a midtown hotel room.
guy's got a license to drill. why would he lie about not using it?
right. even the guy who's not cheating is doing it for underhanded reasons.
you just said you believed<U+0097>
let's find his travel records and get back to work.
they're still married. i'm not. not that i could ever do it. i was jealous of house and cameron never touched him.
he told you this?
that must have sucked.
so loving two people at once is fine as long as one of them is dying?
tom was telling the truth. he really did go to nebraska. plane ticket and restaurant seats.
finally got a stool sample. the loofah's innocent. no sign of amoebas or any other parasites.
we ruled out sex with other people. tom said he and julia have been doing it three or four times a week and she's got boys on the side.
you know what it is?
same pain as before?
get the portable ultrasound in here. we need to get a look at her belly.
my point was that arousal is a function of the parasympathetic nervous system. if that's where the problem is the pain could be triggered by crying which seems<U+0097>
well that wouldn't treat anything except<U+0097>
you're in pain because part of your intestine folded in on itself. it's called an intussusception.
this isn't weird at all. i mean where's rachel eating tonight?
what if she's going out too? she is allowed to right?
don't do it unless you're sure.
biopsy showed non-specific inflammation which suggests ibd only it doesn't explain the cardiac problems.
kidney biopsy showed she had iga nephropathy which could be caused by or associated with (gestures to the whiteboard) any of these conditions.
and it can't be henoch-schonlein purpura. (he crosses it off.) no inciting respiratory infection and no rash.
i have a case.
i really do have a case.
we've ruled out infection vocal cord damage and stroke.
er ruled out infection. eosinophil count ruled out parasites.
we already<U+0097>
i don't see anything wrong with him marrying a straight woman.
just like most straight marriages. he's got the right to life liberty and unhappiness like the rest of us. (he looks at taub)
i'm not saying it's a great choice. just saying it's his choice.
which is how it's gonna stay since we have no right to tell her.
you date guys. you date girls. i assume at some point you're gonna make a choice.
patients lying never bothered you before.
so you're only judgmental when it gets personal.
he's negative?
apomorphine?
(watching a brain wave printout) look at this.
he's coding. crash cart.
so what caused the arrest?
i think that's three things.
it's not p.o.t.s. we're back to square one.
we're maxing him out on morphine.
that still wouldn't explain why he got the headaches in the first place.
there. that should stop the leak.
(examining his eyes with a light scope) both eyes are responsive.
this isn't a stroke.
it's really not p.o.t.s. we're really back to square one.
mra showed no problems with blood flow to the brain rules out t.i.a.
what about melas? mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes.
we know how much we can trust his history.
talk to the loser.
(sounding like he knows house is expecting the invitation) oh. drinks are on me and foreman tonight.
we don't want to do it either but wilson already paid us.
i know.
(handing the container to foreman) his therapists loaded him with hormones.
except they could screw up your thyroid.
so something else screwed up his thyroid. graves hashimoto's.
except we<U+0097> we cleared him for cancer.
but it's in the area that controls memory. not likely it's a coincidence.
then it's probably a toxin and we need to find it before it kills her. we should search her house.
[voice over] her extreme exercise suppresses her immune system [cut to diagnostics] allows the infection to smolder.
lungs sound wet. o-2 sats are dropping.
we need to get her on a vent.
eddie would go. it's a surfing phrase. must be from her earlier life.
vasovagal reaction...
everything checks out okay.
it's expected given the trauma you've sustained.
brain infection?
the infection causes neurological symptoms goes systemic and d.i.c. causes the bleed.
he didn't say his neck was sore.
an arachnoid cyst on his lower spine. that's why we missed it. he's been sitting ten hours a day. spiked his spinal fluid pressure.
