it's a lesion.
shouldn't we be speaking to the patient before we start diagnosing?
no but
isn't treating patients why we became doctors?
so you're trying to eliminate the humanity from the practice of medicine.
first year of medical school if you hear hoof beets you think horses not zebras.
wernickie's encephalopathy?
lab in trenton could have screwed up the blood test. i assume it's a corollary if people lie that people screw up.
we inject gadolinium into a vein. it distributes itself throughout your brain and acts as a contrast material for the magnetic resonance imagery.
it might make you feel a little light-headed.
hold her neck.
she's not breathing. epi point five.
too much edema where's the surgical airway kit?
you actually want me to talk to the patient? get a history?
i thought everybody lied?
that doesn't mean anything does it?
you're looking for support for a diagnosis of cerebral vasculitus.
mildly.
i'm not.
i was smelling the floor.
do you have any pets in this class?
careless.
no i'm smelling for mold. i don't need to smell it.
you said you didn't have any pets in this class.
parrots are the primary source of psitticosis.
psitticosis can lead to nerve problems and neurological complications.
20.
none but
she lives in trenton. i can go up to her room tomorrow morning and ask her for the key.
it's not a crime scene.
she's a kindergarten teacher!
whoa oh i can't just break into someone's house.
i should thank him?
i should sue you!
but i'm pretty sure i can sue if you fire me for not breaking into some lady's house.
your chest will be sore for a while. we needed to shock you to get your heart going. ok. [he lays a bunch of cards with pictures on them in front of rebecca] can you arrange these to tell a story?
she couldn't put them in order.
no i gave her the same test 5 minutes later and she did just fine. the altered mental status is intermittent just like the verbal skills.
given the latest symptoms it's clearly growing deeper into the brain stem. soon she won't be able to walk she'll go blind permanently and then the respiratory center will fail.
if it's a tumor we're talking a month maybe two if it's infectious a few weeks if it's vascular that'll probably be fastest of all maybe a week.
i still think it's a tumor. i think we should go back to the radiation.
well maybe we didn't see the effects until we started steroids.
so we're just gonna do nothing? we're just gonna watch her die?
there's go to be something we can do something better than watching her die.
bastard. [turns to cameron] oh cameron i need you for a couple of hours.
when you break into someone's house; it's always better to have a white chick with you.
for all we know she could be running a meth lab out of her basement.
nothing interesting in the garbage. i say what i think is just another way of saying i'm an ass.
i was 16! don't know about ticks but her dog's definitely got fleas.
yeah? well you obviously didn't grow up in my neighborhood.
am i supposed to respect their food more than i respect their dvd players? you want some?
you gonna go hungry until she dies?
you know what after centuries of oppression decades of civil rights marches and more significantly living like a monk never getting less than a 4.0 gpa you don't think it's kind of disgusting i get one of the top jobs in the country because i'm a delinquent? we'll eat then we'll tear up the carpet.
yep.
so how'd you get the job? did you stab a guy in a bar fight?
nothing.
nothing that would explain these symptoms.
not that i could tell from her underwear drawer.
dr. wilson convinced you to treat this patient under false pretenses. adler's not his cousin.
she's not jewish!
i had ham at her apartment!
ok maybe she's jewish but she's definitely not your cousin.
you don't even know her name! you called her rachel; her name is rebecca!
everything i found was in [interrupted]
so?
they they get a little better and then they get worse.
out.
as long as it's healthy so what do we do? call a vet and nurse the little guy back to health?
maybe we can get a court order override her wishes. claim she doesn't have the capacity to make this decision.
pretty common result.
which is the same thing as a ct scan which we did which proved nothing.
cretinism.
nothing good the brain's losing control of the body. can't order the eyes to focus regulate sleep patterns or control muscle movements.
from what i've read false paternity is more like 10%.
i'll take your money.
make it $100.
we did a ct mri cbc chem-7 and chest x-ray. all the tests came back normal. there's nothing to explain his symptoms.
no structural abnormalities.
there's no evidence of meningitis on that mri.
he probably just moved nobody stays perfectly still for their entire mri.
if there's bowing it could be a tumor.
no but i don't see any bowing either.
now i'm injecting a material that's tagged with a radioactive isotope. it's gonna enter your spine and travel up to your brain. it'll make you able to think deep thoughts at about 100 miles per hour.
their eyes aren't the same color but that fleck in the eyes that's maybe a one in ten chance if they're not related?
[chuckles] any excuse we can give the folks to justify a dna test?
[chuckles again]
hey there's a lot of blockage.
no more pressure everything goes back to normal.
surgery went fine he's in recovery but we took a vial of csf and tested it.
turns out the bowing wasn't the cause of his problems it was a symptom.
it's early; he's had the disease for maybe two weeks.
mcdonald.
the vep indicates slowing of the brain.
where's chase?
ok you take the cafeteria and administration. i'll hit the research annex and work my way back to you.
dr. house dan's missing.
he shouldn't move after a lumbar puncture.
we wanted to keep you informed. he heard some pretty heavy news.
so when you say call me if you need anything you mean don't call me.
what about his parents? should we call them?
dan!
dan! no!
he almost walked off the roof.
no he thought he was on his lacrosse field. look look i was just gonna run home shower change[interrupted]
yeah.
actually chase tackled him.
right well i am black but he was closer.
why doesn't he have ms?
yeah sure.
the oligoclonal bands.
so the fact that he doesn't have ms is it's really not good news after all?
we can't. in a cramped space like the brain increased intracranial pressure from a high-volume drug like penicillin could herniate his brain stem and kill him. no neurologist in his right mind would recommend that.
[sighs] the patient has a shunt in his brain. there'll be no increased pressure we can put as much penicillin into his body as we want.
well it's unusual but it's possible. relax.
lfts bun and creatinine are all normal diabetes is out. no gap.
infection.
but no fevers; white count's elevated but within range.
dan's brain's not showing channel 6 right now only mush.
west nile negative not surprising since not too many mosquitoes passing through jersey in december.
[sighs] dude doubled up on me.
sub-acute sclerosing pan-encephalitis.
i suppose you could make an argument that the kid's still in stage one. once sspe moves to stage two [interrupted]
intraventricular interferon.
we won't get a reliable result for measles antibodies in his csf not after everything we've given him.
[sighs] well there is one other way.
yeah it's just scary as hell. see we go through the pupil. you won't feel it; the eye's been paralyzed. the needle travels to the back of the eye which is where we perform the biopsy on your retina.
so we've confirmed that the problem is this mutated virus. the treatment for sspe is intra-ventricular interferon. we implant an ommaya reservoir under the scalp which is connected to a ventricular catheter that delivers the antiviral directly to the left hemisphere [interrupted]
well the antiviral[pauses] look i'm sorry i can explain this as best i can but the notion that you're gonna fully understand your son's treatment and make an informed decision is it's kinda insane. now here's what you need to know it's dangerous it could kill him you should do it.
good news on your eeg treatment is working.
i know it's early but let me take a look. let's see what that brain of yours can do. name as many animals as you can that start with the letter o.
how's that?
no you wouldn't get the rash or cough. what about arthritis? accompanying vasculitis causes nerve damage 
nah but then you wouldn't get the  [house slams a giant book in front of foreman.]
cort-stim tests will tell us if your pituitary and adrenal glands are working properly.
yeah well that's the way it works. first you find out what it is then we get you better.
it's got to be viral. we should start running gels and titers.
[laughs] what did you tell her?
we should stop the antibiotics.
they're having an effect. his bp's falling fast. [cut to a shot of brandon coughing.] there's fluid filling his lungs. his creatinine's rising. [cg shot of the iv meds hitting brandon's bloodstream.] his kidneys are shutting down. our treatment isn't making him better it's killing him.
i don't think it complicates things. the kidney failure was caused by the antibiotics.
typically low blood pressure and abdominal pain means an infection. an abdominal infection causes sepsis low blood pressure
i know but what if it's the other way around. what if the low blood pressure is causing the abdominal pain?
i know it's not the standard presentation.
i thought that's what we dealt with here. it explains the cardiomyopathy pain the low bp the fever.
well anything can cause a rash.
if you're going to list all of the things it can't be you're gonna need more colors.
occam's razor.< the simplest explanation is always the best.
i think your argument is specious.
two odd conditions striking completely coincidentally at the exact same time?
of course they did we're doctors. they believe whatever we tell them. [pause] so is that our job? house's puppets? he comes up with an insane idea we get to pretend it's not?
-- been here long enough to have stockholm syndrome. [chase and cameron laugh.]
he has no idea where the box is! if you guys think he's right go home. relax.< just wait for the kid to get all better.< i'm going to the lab to test for viral infections. [he walks off; chase and cameron follow.]
negative for coxsackie-b virus.
no i think we're going to get it by standing around watching other people work.
bad idea.
bad idea.< you work with her.
ghetto euphemism? [chase laughs.] you don't think she's hot?
wow then you're brilliant. and i am using brilliant as a euphemism.
brilliant. [long pause a test beeps] your epstein barr is ready.
i'm impressed.
i meant about chase.
well the man has no physical interest in you. he has a completely professional relationship with you he respects you as a colleague and a doctor and yet he can't look at you without thinking sex.
you now have total control over your relationship with him.
why didn't you page us?
not yet.
the kidney failure.< it's acute interstitial nephritis.<
< it means the antibiotics didn't cause the kidney failure. how did you know?
you visited a patient?
hey i'm glad for the kid. [he leaves.]
still have the cough.
i see.
just ordering some tests. absolutely nothing to worry about.
i ran a tsh t3 and t4. patient's negative for hypothyroidism. [patient looks up.]< not talking about you.< [she goes back to the gameboy.]
if i'm right and it's a viral infection one of two things always happens: patient dies or the patient's immune system fights off the invader. [nods toward patient] what's with her?
he's getting better.< that doesn't prove you're right it just proves he's getting better. [house smiles.] it it's not two illnesses!< it can't be two illnesses!
if i'm right the antibiotics you prescribed could block his kidneys and liver impeding his ability to fight off the virus. could kill him.
you wanna bet on the patient's health?
hey. [house walks in.]
no.< we were both wrong.< white cell count is down way down and dropping. his immune system is shot.< we need to get him into a clean room.
something's made his immune system compromised.
if he gets sick he'll die.
if he gets a cold he'll die.
okay.< i'm going to push the needle into your hipbone and take some of the marrow. [he inserts a needle.]
hah that was just the anesthetic. the core biopsy needle it's a little bit bigger. okay man take a deep breath this is this is gonna hurt. a lot. [brandon seizes the bed and grimaces in pain.] marrow makes the blood cells. you take a peek of it under a microscope and maybe we find a viral infection.< maybe we find some fibrosis.< something to explain why your blood count is so low. [he fills the syringe with marrow.] there we go. one step closer to an answer.
gout?< uric acid crystals in the joints?< the symptoms are pain swelling redness stiffness not one of which do i see on that board.
dr. house maybe we should 
okay brandon we're gonna run this tube through your heart and into the pulmonary arteries in your lung.
try not to move.< we're in the right atrium trying to catch the flow through the tricuspid valve.
got it.< we're in the rv now. [a monitor beeps.]
it'll calm down.
he needs this surgery. [another monitor starts to beep.]
yeah but no surgery today.
the colchicine interferes with the ability of the heart muscle to contract pumping blood lowering your blood pressure. [cgi of his heart.] the antibodies we're giving you should neutralize the colchicine allowing your heart to beat at its normal rate.
for what?
[puts the baby down smiling and fully aware of the awkward situation] good looking baby.
tragic huh?
[to cameron and chase] this imaginary infection has spread to the next floor?
bp's plummeting. they're barely able to keep systolic up; at this rate they'll be dead in a day.
what's she gonna swab? every respirator sink vent drain in the entire hospital? that'll take months.
parasite.
and they're not responding to a cycle of avirarapovirin. if it's some other virus we'll never find it in time anyway. [house writes a question mark next to virus.]
mrsa. it's always mrsa in hospitals.
h-flu. [house writes these all down.]
[behind cameron] it it's low. the heart needs to circulate the blood. if it's weak oxygen isn't getting to the liver the kidneys the brain. [kim nods sadly.]
pretty standard question: how sick is my child? you couldn't answer it.
you rattled off numbers! bp o2 stats. that's not what they need to know.
no just eight years of medical training. look i realize it's tough to break bad news to family 
and i guess being the poor guy dying is toughest of all?
you're the nephrologist. which one did it? we'll take em off that one. [pause] don't tell me both vancomycin and aztreonam can 
we can't take them off the antibiotics. they'll die of the infection.
it's like i said: it's always mrsa in hospitals. take em off aztreonam.
what the hell are you doing?
that's wrong.
we have a duty to these two!
so you're condemning one of these kids to die based on random chance. [pregnant pause]
your daughter's kidneys are shutting down
so we're going to take her off the aztreonam.
we think it's mrsa. methicillin-resistant staph aureus. it's a very resistant form of a very common bacteria.
vancomycin is the best treatment for mrsa so we're gonna keep giving it to her.
your child is very sick. you need to know that. this is a hail mary' pass. it might cure her it might not. [ethan sits back on the couch defeated.]
still v-fib.
still v-fib.
it's a super bug.
then these kids are dead.
we're screwed. we can't chase down a virus; there's a thousand possibilities.
a thousand of them? the kids don't have enough blood.
no toxoplasmosis no rubella. cross out the entire torch syndrome.
enteroviruses too i think.
well the sick babies all tested positive for echovirus 11.
and cmv and parvovirus b19.
what's weirder the healthy kid we tested: he's positive for echovirus 11 and cmv antibodies as well.
so we just learned nothing?
the mom had cmv in the past she'd have the antibodies for them the kid would be immune from it. so we test the sick kids' moms for echovirus cmv and parvovirus.
i'll test the mothers.
echovirus 11. it's an enterovirus. it lodges in the intestinal tract.
viruses are more difficult to treat than bacterial infections. we still haven't found a cure for the common cold.
there's a company in pennsylvania developing an antiviral. it got positive results in a lab setting and we managed to get our hands on it.
so pulmonary resistance is stabilized for the two kids but bp's still 
dr. cameron?
sorry i'm just not used to you asking about someone's well-being.
why do you want to know? [they get out of the elevator.]
just curious.
you don't get curious.
not about trivialities.
just fine.
chase take a look at this. [chase comes over and starts to check out baby hartig with the stethoscope.]
there's no history of fever. results from the cbc didn't indicate an infection.
vasculitis? that wouldn't give you an elevated eosinophil count.
the lady just came in with a rash. [house stops and stares at a bunch of candy canes on the table.]
isn't the prognosis for churg-strauss a bit grim?
if it was any other attending doctor i'd say that he made a mistake and gave her too much epinephrine.
everyone screws up: your rule. i think you fit inside the subset of everyone.
um how're you feeling sister?
prednisone. it's a steroid to help with the inflammation.
he doesn't know what he's doing. the only problem that woman has is that house grabbed the wrong syringe.
i don't trust a man who won't admit he might be wrong. i notice you weren't so quick to tell her she has churg-strauss and only has a couple years to live.
because you know he might be wrong.
what about you chase? you think he's infallible too?
there is that.
okay sister we need to you lie as still as possible. if you get scared just let us know.
at least she's got god on her side.
you're not even a little agnostic?
what else is there to control but the everyday workings of you and me?
what else are you talking about? the trees the fish? should they be the ones to think it's all about them? what about you chase? do you believe in god?
which means house made a mistake.
i don't get you. you don't believe in god but you're willing to put complete faith in one man?
let's get her out of there. [augustine is panicking as they pull her out.]
let's get her on some ativan. [he holds on to augustine's arms as she continues to cry.] smells religious visions are symptomatic of temporal lobe swelling. we don't want her to 
help me get her on her side. [the three of them maneuver the sister onto her side.]
yeah. and next comes [he lifts up part of her gown we see a rash on her leg. chase and foreman share a look.]
patient tested positive for herpetic encephalitis.
sure she was feeling better right up to the moment it almost killed her.
except her ana was normal.
but the treatment is corticosteroids prednisone and we can't go there because of the encephalitis.
there's no protocol for putting a patient in a high-pressure oxygen room to treat autoimmune problems.
you are aware of the hippocratic oath right?
hyperbaric treatments could cause oxygen toxicity lung and eye damage 
which is why we treat when we're only convinced the patient needs the treatment.
she still has the rash and the joint pain she came in with.
hey it's not like i betrayed him. cuddy would have found out about the hyperbaric treatments eventually.
take the cardiac arrest out of the equation
that's what cameron said in the beginning.
well what about the tea? it caused her arrhythmia.
there you go. no television no books.
i'm afraid not. this room has filtered air filtered water you even have silk sheets. very decadent and hypoallergenic. you should be feeling better here. [foreman and cameron leave.]
as long as she's not exposed to anything that will aggravate her allergy she'll be fine. [chase comes and knocks on the window.]
no way she's in the damn clean room.
gonna have to intubate.
on her medical history she didn't mention any surgery.
no piercings no fillings no surgical pins in the arm no implants
what is that?
lock on it. get a 3d representation. [the image shows a piece of metal in the form of a cross.]
so she's allergic to copper.
oral contraceptives smoking diabetes obesity and what's the point here? a dvt's a dvt. put her on iv heparin to prevent future clots. what's the big mystery?
i treated a 12 year old girl once soccer player she got kicked in the leg
paranoia?
well
he's really talking to a patient?
it's a blood clot. what's so fascinating about that?
they think badly. that's the definition of crazy. why would he like
i thought he liked rationality.
patients are puzzles?
i think they're people.
for the test dr. house said [ lucy spits in his face; one aide presses call button for help ]
haldol 5 milligrams stat.
the haldol had nothing to do with the bleed. you know that. i used it purely as a chemical restraint.
those side effects are so rare!
she spit in my face!
what was i supposed to do? tie her down?
usually it means whoever drew the blood didn't do it right.
that's right.
so house says the kid's sensitive. thinks he takes good care of her. if we don't find anything why let him know we did it in the first place? what's the point? why not just make old foreman [ pulling a key out of his pocket ] lift the key from the kid's backpack? [ chase takes it and they go in ]
nothing in there. he lays out her clothes?
pick that up on your psych rotation?
[ finding strongbox ] trifluo perazine thorazine foziril  whew they tried everything. the ampicillin -- [ shakes bottle ] never touched it. there goes cameron's theory.
breakfast lunch and dinner. house was right.
house was right. that usually makes you happy. less work for us.
the kid's in a tough situation  you do what you've gotta do to survive.
where i come from if it works
you've seen someone stagger down that road?
it's big. five point eight centimeters.
mickey mantle had a whole bar named after him. he got a transplant.
not a big risk taker bergen. he won't even drink milk on its expiration date.
maybe you're just not getting enough sleep.
if any of us did this you'd fire us.
you're not questioning you're hoping you want it to be wilson's boom! give her a couple of drugs she's ok!
[ at the controls ] you're gonna see a bright light ok? your body might be accumulating too much copper. if it is this should help us see something called kaiser-fleischer rings copper-colored circles around your corneas. [ he twiddles knobs brings view into focus  it shows a copper ring around the cornea ] i guess we should start treating her for wilson's.
what's interesting about that? hypersomnia is usually accompanied by irritability in depressed patients.
hello! she's sleeping 18 hours a day!
she could be sick and depressed?
that's what i mean
hypersomnia and personality changes point toward the brain.
a tumor sitting directly on top of the brain stem? that three er doctors two neurologists and a radiologist missed?
we don't know we're checking just to be safe.
the previous mri had a broader view.
if it is a tumor there are a variety of treatment options but there are variables other than just size.
there were no lesions and no mass effect that we could see.
it means we're still not sure what's causing your neurological problems.
you feeling nauseous?
she's aspirating suction!
that we were able to detect.
a small glioma could hide from contrast. we could do a pet scan.
suddenly tests and radiologists aren't capable of error?
what? love conquers all?
we've looked at everything else.
we treat the underlying malignancy. once there's no tumor to attack there's nothing for the antibodies to get confused about.
exactly.
what choice do we have?
so we're just going to ignore the tumor?
why are you riding me?
yeah. seems to me.
how long has elise worked here?
what's that?
how do you clean your grill?
do you use chemical cleaners?
what about pesticides? you must spray for roaches and that sort of thing?
and the fact that i'm here asking you these questions it doesn't worry you?
we had to sedate her.
it was better than letting her scratch all the skin off her arms.
blood cultures and the timeline rule out most bacteria.
the symptoms rule out the rest. serology rules out viruses css smears rule out parasites.
but it's not possible for a patient who's never been to africa to have african sleeping sickness.
no the kitchen she works in is cleaner than some hospitals. but they do serve rabbit. rabbit fever fits her symptoms.
not if she inhaled it. chopping the meat with a cleaver could easily aerosolize the bacteria.
maybe she ignored it figured she had a cold.
hey it's either that or she missed her exit on the turnpike and wound up in africa.
that's why i ride you. what does that mean? even when i have a good idea it's because of him?
how come he doesn't ride you guys?
by safer you mean the one that's slightly less likely to kill her?
sleeping sickness from sex?
i'm pretty sure it is. unless you're talking about going to africa and having sex with the tse tse fly.
they're both fatal without treatment. and unfortunately the treatment for both is extremely dangerous.
not at this stage. but each condition has a unique history. we're hoping your answers to a few questions will help us.
[sighs] the other condition is significantly more likely if if you've had an affair.
you might be reluctant to admit it--
i just want to be perfectly clear. if your wife has sleeping sickness and we don't treat her she'll die.
and then there was none. we still have the problem of explaining how a white chick from jersey who's never traveled south of d.c. has african sleeping sickness.
i made it clear. if this guy's lying about sleeping around he knows he's murdering his wife.
glass syringes?
why do we need this stuff?
what doesn't kill us makes us stronger huh?
[reading a warning tag] can cause vomiting abdominal pain blood toxicity neural damage cardiac arrhythmia
she's lucky she's in a coma. [chase injects the melarsoprol. cgi of cells getting frozen]
hey. she's gonna be ok.
the kid was just taking his ap calculus exam when all of a sudden he got nauseous and disoriented.
severe bradycardia. heart rates down to 48 and falling fast
no.
i didn't notice.
he's not responding to atropine.
his tox screen was negative. he's still whacked out
his cat scan was clean. there's no sign of infection and it's not diabetes.
that's what you wanna hear. not in the slightest
he was clean.
that's new.
actually i never did drugs. [leaves]
you know why house thinks i'm a druggie?
same reason he thinks this kid overdosed. when you're a drug addict you want to think everyone else is too.
the definition of addict.
and addicted to painkillers. what a coincidence.
now this is gonna be a racial thing.
yeah i'm just like him. except for the angry bitter pompous cripple part.
[opens the fridge to find another jar] this one's open.
matt decided to make himself a homemade pizza for a bedtime snack.
i figured you were trying to make some kind of subtle point.
also not a symptom of drug use either. not two hours after admission
carbonates?
too soon to tell.
i ran his plasma twice.
actually one of my professors at columbia developed an experimental treatment for the army.
they're targeting. there's a different hydrolase treatment for each poison. we need to know if
if we figure out how he got exposed we'll figure out what he got exposed to.
front yard vegetable garden.
i'll make the call. [leaves]
heart rates 49 o2 stat.
dr. house wanted your son to get the medicine he needed. he was willing to do whatever it took to make that happen.
he didn't know that. at the time it was our only choice.
he listened. he just assumed you were wrong. and to be honest that's true of most of our patients.
yep. only one problem. matt's mom faxed his record to the cdc and she refuses to let us do anything till she hears back from them.
she's not a big fan of mine.
diazepam.
not responding. another 10.
their hearts are barely pumping. their lungs are shot now they're showing liver toxicity.
only explanation is they got poisoned by something other than ethyl parathion. then the hydrolase would release the neurotoxins instead of bonding with them. [they enter the office]
poison was probably absorbed through the skin.
absorption through the skin? anywhere from 3 to 8 hours.
wake up go to the bathroom and the obvious. then check their zits in the mirror.
chi doesn't look like he shaves.
chi has a dog matt has a cat.
matt uses sure.
doesn't mater. when's the last time you heard of a teenage boy using air freshener? pert shampoo.
there are limits to a mother's power even hers.
negative on the floral.
or any other kind of deodorant.
no to shampoo bar soap dish soap dish detergent
if we cure matt he can use his close brush with death on his college essays. admission guys love that stuff.
tko. liquid?
128. yellow jug. special-
phosmet.
chi's parents said yes but-
some guy was selling pants off the back of his truck near the school. when he wasn't busy as a clothing entrepreneur he did daily at the cornfield over by route one. used the same truck for both jobs.
why would i do that?
so what are his stats?
coughing up much sputa?
dr. house is there anything back from micro?
you can make up for it by washing my car.
let's keep him on the broad-spectrum antibiotics and since he's displaying septic physiology draw blood for adrenal and thyroid function. [cameron and chase stand up but house's feet resting on the table block their path.]
we're sticking to the pneumonia.
the paralysis has already been diagnosed by dr. hamilton. it's als.
-- because hamilton has excluded everything else.
no the progression of the paralysis would be symmetric. this wasn't.
hamilton tested for it. negative. and he was negative for masses and avm and 
no because the mri showed 
guys? it's my case. [they sit down again.] als fits. it even predicts the pneumonia. the paralysis is progressive.
that doesn't make it wrong.
it makes sense.
well dr. hamilton 
an mri would give us a better idea 
well dr. house thinks we should test for 
[chuckling] that's him.
they're both excellent physicians.
[sighs] everything points to als.
a dnr? mr. giles you don't want to rush things 
he signed a dnr.
he signed a dnr.
no.
i started him on iv steroids and ancinthroid. (sp?)
for his pneumonia?
he doesn't want anything done. no treatment.
this is dr. foreman. what's mr. giles's status? okay increase the steroids to 100mg every 12 hours and ah start him on ivig. yeah i'm sure. one gram per kilo.
no it's our mistake. he's sludging from the ivig. blood can't get through to his lungs.
we can't! he's dnr.
the ivig put him into respiratory failure.
we did this.
it's too late! we killed him.
what are you doing? you can't do this!
you can't do this!
what's wrong with you?
you tubed him and he didn't wanna be tubed! he has a legal paper saying just that.
there's no question. it's the patient's decision 
oh my god. you don't believe that.
it's nothing. do not defend him.
i didn't talk him into 
right! exactly! it's the ivig you screwed up! you're not gonna let him die because you screwed up!
you assaulted that man.
yes you will.
dr. hamilton. hey! [they great each other with much smiling and back slapping and dude can't you see we're totally friends kind of attutide. house looks on with interest.] listen dr. hamilton i'm sorry. [house raises his eyebrows.] i should have never put your patient on ivig.
how's the old place doing? [they start to chat.]
it's not wegener's.
[pulling out his stethoscope] he's still breathing!
he's holding his own.
he's alive because you were wrong. it's not wegener's.
how about this one? he's not our patient.
he doesn't want you treating him!
wow. that's quite an honor. [their salads arrive.]
to be honest you've earned it.
i remember the cigar bar afterwards.
not the word i'd use.
kinda sorta.
i don't know. could be.
hamilton offered me a job.
i haven't decided.
it's a partnership. [they look at him.] three times the money car allowance moving expense pension plan the chance to work for a guy who gives a crap what other people think.
i made a commitment here.
or he wouldn't just to jerk me around. would you guys have taken the job?
you guys really don't have a problem with him with what he did?
choice? chase it's not apples and oranges its right and wrong. and he does it like he doesn't care! he assaults the guy and moves on to the next differential diagnosis like it's nothing 
yeah! yeah i want some clue that he knows it's a big deal. that it scares him that it matters.
you make enough calls one of them is bound to be right.
listen listen i just think it wouldn't hurt him to learn a little humility. [we see that house has been standing behind foreman. whoops!]
we found a blood clot in your brain. we'd like to start you on heparin it's a blood thinner.
well your lungs are kind of chewed up from the pneumonia. good chance there'll be an effusion.
it's our best chance to give you back the use of your arm.
the damage would likely be minimal.
or we could do an embolectomy. basically we'd go in and pull the clot out.
it'll either help your arm or 
from your point of view it's a win-win.
we'll set up the procedure for today.
i don't know i guess it's just with dr. hamilton here i notice a difference in styles.
i didn't know you were standing there when i said that okay? it was completely rude.
you're both excellent doctors.
you've been wrong every step of the way.
the timing doesn't seem suspicious to you?
i'm sure he will.
i assume you want me to convince hamilton to stop his treatments too?
you know at least five of the medications are part of his protocol?
right. so that's what you'll stop.
yeah it's not whether you win or lose it's whether the other guy loses.
he already got one. and an mra.
this about your ego?
it's that simple? i should just ignore the mockery and abuse?
how do you not? if i make a mistake 
dr. hamilton forgives. he's capable of moving on.
i screwed up his case he told me 
so?
how could hamilton have missed an avm?
if it's inflammation the steroids would have shrunk it down.
homeless usually means crazy; no money. cuddy's not going to like this 
homeless always means no roof at least there's too much sun
you feel that?
make a fist around my fingers tight as you can. squeeze.
right. [nods] all right. raise your arms above your head for me.
she doesn't want to be discharged. she's manipulating me.
blood sugar's 38. [nurse rushes in]
the blood sugar was real. but she's probably diabetic. od'd on her own insulin. [to nurse at desk] i need 2032. do you have her effects out here? [to wilson] look a seizure buys her a place to sleep while the nice doctors run their tests maybe a few free meals. [nurse places bag on counter foreman look at it] $20 says there's insulin in here. [foreman opens the bag makes face and turns away because of stench] oh put this back please.
her arm moved.
[interrupts] a need to see a neurologist which is why you called me. keep an eye on her until 2:00 pm watch her blood sugar give her a nice hot lunch and discharge her.
the patient's a thirty-ish jane doe. i just thought i'd discharge her. [glares at wilson]
read the file no evidence of cranial trauma.
or about a dozen other things. come on there's two things homeless people are good at  getting sick and running scams. if you're so worried about it being a brain tumor get her an mri when she's clear on that then you can bounce her out of here.
[flips open a magazine] i've known a lot more homeless people than you have.
oh geez.
okay. why are we on this case  just because wilson asked?
most people wouldn't you do.
[holds up a needle] wow. looks just like insulin. [looks at wilson]
[exasperated] so do the mri. find out 
okay. even if she's not faking what's so fascinating about this case?
[racing forward] all right let's get it out. one milligram of ativan push.
she bit me!
yeah? well i'm getting a tetanus shot she's getting an mri.
she's getting an mri. and then she's out of here. [leaves room]
[walks up looking at slip of paper] excuse me you're dr. terharg's 10:00?
of course. [he wheels the patient away trading a slip of paper with one chase is holding as he walks past in the opposite direction wheeling jane]
dr. terharg is a plastic surgeon. the woman was getting a six-month checkup on a chin implant.
actually i 
how are we supposed to 
great.
sure she's not conning us the mri is.
she drew these. [laying several hand-drawn comic books out on table] they might give us a clue.
all the mythology the locations they're all dependant on life experience.
that's a cloud.
that's why you insisted on the mri. so you could remove the surgical pin from her arm.
[looks at fax] oh crap!
her blood work came back an hour ago magnesium was normal.
stopped the magnesium started iron dextran for severe anemia. [throws up hands] she's allergic to iron dextran!
[to victoria] you have an allergic reaction can you speak? [victoria continues to gasp]
well we got her sedated and stabilized.
well nothing's changed.
baby it's cold outside.
pregnant?
the chart doesn't say 
why make a second appointment?
you got all of that from one cancelled appointment?
and the cancer wouldn't account for the alleged twitch or any other of her alleged symptoms.
working hard?
you trying to teach me something here?
you care about her personal history?
[short laugh] dad's with mom.
no! on a pension.
pfft. right now you.
oh god.
pine box.
a second dose of some antibiotics. if you've got a tuberculoma it should help.
[sighs] probably not.
listen  i'm sorry i didn't believe you.
[nods and looks down at sketch.] were you ever  married victoria? [victoria shakes her head] but in the comic 
so who's james? is he real or did you make him up?
can i help you find him?
take it easy take it easy everything's fine.
wait wait wait hold on [grabs thermometer and puts it in victoria's ear]
[looks at thermometer which reads 105] all right hold on victoria. [rushes over to close blinds and turn off light] take it easy everything's fine. take it easy everything's fine victoria.
[gets glass of water] hold on. take a sip take a sip.
[grabs needle] hold on. take it easy.
hey turn off that damn light!
[injects her] take it easy take it easy. the bad guys can't get you here i've got you covered.
it's not a tuberculoma. can't be.
her temperature's 105. treatment's not working it's cancer. she's dying.
how do you figure that? her temp's through the roof.
well a tuberculoma doesn't give you a temperature of 105.
i did the biopsy  no nick! she could have picked up an infection on the streets.
she probably never took it! most likely they saw her one time and dumped her out of the er with a script.
your fever's 105. if we don't bring it down fast 
we're saving your life.
hey come on  you can do this.
lumbar punctures revealed elevated proteins and white counts.
i  i did it myself a half hour ago.
[looking at the wall] calendrica.
she's gonna die out there.
it was ten milligrams i gave it to her 
funny.
in her comics mr. fury lives in sloan harbor. the night she came in she was at a rave at 1408 sloan street.
you got a temp?
that's something to look into; she has meningitis.
rhythm regular?
ready  one two three. [they move victoria from stretcher to gurney.]
[to policeman] where'd you find her?
{something} narrow complex? she wasn't at sloan?
all right. super ventricular tachycardias. get me adenosine one milligram push. thank you. [he gives her the injection] hang in there. [he looks back and forth between monitor and victoria while she stabilizes]
her arrythmia stabilized.
we must be wrong about the meningitis. maybe it's structural heart disease.
two seconds.
if it is with the delay in treatment she's got almost no chance.
well then she's dying. the meningitis treatment isn't helping her she's getting worse.
[derisive snort] jerk. probably couldn't get to his real gun fast enough.
localized numbness?
the diabetes?
no alcohol. not entrapment syndrome. can't be a vitamin deficiency. we can't chase down every sensory neuropathy.
yeah.
what the hell?!
rabies.
there were bats.
[sigh] do it. [wilson sticks needle into foreman's stomach] mmmph.
and say what? there's some experimental treatment but it's not gonna work. don't worry we can make you comfortable? doesn't matter how. she's gonna die.
mmm [gets up]
tell house i need to go out for about an hour.
i don't want her to die alone.
i'm gonna try.
[to wilson] hey  this is it.
this has got to be james. maybe there's another address.
mr. fury.
then who's james?
she was driving.
no. it's paul.
no. i've come to forgive you. [victoria's breath catches and her eyes start to tear] it wasn't your fault.
i know. it's okay victoria. it's okay.
well it's not environmental. dad hired a company to clean the house maid washed all the clothes and bought hypoallergenic sheets and pillows.
it could be an infection.
well he's 99.2.
but above. his body's reacting to something. [while this is happening house is looking at his watch shuffling papers resting his head on the clear white board etc.]
he also doesn't seem the type.
didn't mean to offend you.
not cloudy. negative.
thirteen.
you okay? [house nods slightly.]
it's a retinal clot in the left eye.
surgery's out for the same reason.
does your leg hurt?
there's gonna be side effects. insomnia depression tachycardia 
it's not an infection. gallium scan didn't reveal anything.
it's an infection. in his heart?
hey we don't have time for this let's go.
you know house shouldn't even be here.
what does the man have to do to piss you off?
exactly! he's detoxing can't you see he's out of his mind?
there's only been one case of hep-e originating in the us since --
you just said it wasn't hep-e.
what do we tell the dad? we think your kid has lupus so we're gonna treat him for hepatitis-e? and oh yeah if it really is hep-e we're not actually giving him hep-e medication so it's gonna make him worse not better?
this is a lawsuit.
he's delaying treatment because of a one-in-a-million chance that even he doesn't think is the problem.
then don't.
treat him for lupus.
yeah. [he leaves.]
angiography revealed major upper and lower gi bleeding severe hemodynamic compromise and liver failure.
you gonna just blame this on her?
no it just makes it this kid's only chance to live. [small pause]
and what happened to your hand?
yeah right. you're going through withdrawal.
i took this job to work with you not cover your ass. [he reaches into his pocket and takes out house's vicodin which he puts on the desk.] your vicodin.
no. now i'm covering my ass. take your pills before you kill this kid. [he leaves. house grabs the bottle opens it with one hand and spills the pills on the desk. he picks up one pill and. does he take it? we don't know! argh!]
but how many are about to bleed to death unless they get a new liver?
so he's screwed.
no i'm sorry. we'll continue the transfusions and the treatment for the anemia and liver failure while we're waiting for a donor.
so if he was imagining a fake cat it'd be lupus but since it was a real cat it's not? take your damn pills.
four years of college four at med school two years of residency another four of sub-specialty training and where do i end up?
what's that?
you've already cost him his liver don't kill him too!
yeah sure. this is nothing but a dietary thing.
so getting away from the poison is what poisoned him?
i-i dunno. i just feel kinda weird after what it turned into.
mm-hm. [gives her a quick kiss-aww! and she leaves. he puts his tie on then spots her underwear under the covers. he picks it up snickers triumphantly andtakes it with him?!]
sorry i'm late. car broke down on the interstate.
steroids! i mean the guy was a drug user i'm sure he wouldn't have balked at pumping up through chemicals.
i was coming in early.
hey friday night? can you cover for me?
oh.
dinner with thedrug rep. casting pharmaceuticals.
uhnew guy.
elevated beta 2 proteins though could be cancerous. amyloidosis or lymphoma.
the fat pad biopsy and abdominal ct scan were negative for the cancers but-
what about something environmental? arsenic mercury the symptoms could indicate-
treatment would cause him to retain fluid. with the kidneys almost shut down already he'll die.
your theory is that addison's is causing all the symptoms except for the kidney problems. what's causing the kidney problems?
hey. the lab call is she a match?
geethanks for checking. can you cover for me?
i had car trouble.
what's that? you got a little wet smudge at the end of your nose!
he won't talk to anyone unless he can jerk them around.
multiple hookers! but house is house right? he's gotta have his way. four or five of em. [cameron looks disgusted]
[quietly] what you don't think he has sex?
it's the lab. [answers it] dr. foreman.
heart looks good. we can schedule the transplant.
[unhooking wires from hank's chest] actually your wife just told me that she was making an appointment.
[stops and looks at him] i think you two need to discuss this further-
well it's your wife's decision whether or not she-
why's his potassium up?
[mutters something] we've got to suck the potassium out of him. we gotta get his heart rate down.
it's definitely not addison's.
his heart's not responding to the atropine.
we've already given him 3 ml. [chase uncaps another iv]
his pulse was through the roof. so is his potassium.
andyou're mick?
why are you here?
i was just in hank's room and he said it smelled like the men's room at veteran's stadium. he was right.
unless they were eating steel and batteries for breakfast. [chase is thinking watch out!]
some foods polluted groundwater we should check their home-
you really wannatalk about work?
chlamydia and pneumonia.
rash would be more pustular.
uh enlarged hilar lymph nodes.
what does he have?
airway's too tight.
airway's too tight get me a smaller tube.
smaller tube! [chase hands him a smaller tube which foreman tries to use.]
no i can do it i'll get it.
no i can do it.
got it! [ -- and pulls back a tiny nick on gabe's throat. they begin to ventilate cuddy checks gabe's breathing.]
you really think he's allergic to two antibiotics?
we ran some tests and the results point toward sarcoidosis. it makes the body's tissue swell up. it seems to have gone after gabriel's skin and lungs and given him this fever.
very actually. see this [he hooks it up to the iv] is iv methotrexate. it's an anti-inflammatory which should make all the swelling go down and get you all better.
it's definitely anthrax and it definitely can't be anthrax. it doesn't cause throat nodules.
we're covering all the bases.
i don't know. [we see that gabe's back is covered in a bizarre rash.]
skin lesions are spreading all over his body. they're opening and the fatty tissues are oozing out. he'll be septic in a matter of days.
you think this is neurological?
whatever it is we should start him on steroids keep the swelling down.
if we don't stop the nerve deterioration quickly he'll be paralyzed for life.
you know it could be neurological.
he's never been out of the country.
i don't think so.
we're back at coincidence again?
demonic possession?
yeah that's real big in the jersey suburbs.
but it's obviously dormant in the dad how could the kid catch it?
how'd she get to you?
what about a disc herniation?
yeah i suppose.
hello. i'm dr. foreman i work with dr. house. our initial tests say you're fine. we think you may have had a clot but it resolved on its own so we're gonna keep you overnight to be safe and you can go back home tomorrow. or back to work. hey you okay. [carly whimpers in pain clutching her leg. foreman runs to the other side of the bed. then she screams in pain.] [to the nurse] get in here! i need a line in her iv morphine stat!
yeah he took your parking space.
do you ever watch gilligan's island reruns and really really think they're gonna get off the island this time?
she's also negative for trichinosis no toxoplasmosis or polyarteritis nodosa.
duh allison.
there's no indication of any abnormalities. no lesions no spurs no masses 
there was a shadow on the first test.
real page turner. no it's not that kind of shadow.
it's from the tracer i injected. might also get a little nauseous or have a metallic taste all normal.
carly i'm looking at your vitals right now and 
carly?
respiratory arrest call the code.
she's drowning. [carly starts to flail.]
i'd fire you. bye bye.
so go stick your head between your legs and lick your wounds in stadt.
it is weird.
causes of coma: metabolic structural 
[whistles] that's barely alive. pretty tough to fake it.
bleeding around his brain caused pressure inside his head which caused the coma.
subdural hematoma placed where this one is it could have caused his coma.
i say we evacuate the cavity see if he wakes up.
mr. smith!
i think chase is right. it still should be evacuated but it's not an immediate threat.
vogler called admitting admitting called justice justice came and took him away.
what's wrong with the timing?
what? why?
you think i did?
stop you're embarrassing me.
[to himself] right.
[entering] joey's pressure dropped. pushed iv fluids now he's holding 100 systolic.
no looks like he's bleeding into his liver.
well whatever's killing him is not hep-c. it's acute.
right. your diabolic plan to convince the evil genius he's in the clear so he'll let his guard down and make a fatal mistake sure.
house thinks someone ratted him out to vogler.
too bad his liver's only going to last another two.
you thought he was being poisoned by hemlock? dr. euripides tell you to check for that?
how much do you like house?
yeah. he's probably the one who ratted to vogler.
does it hurt when you're with house? little pain in the tummy but it sort of feels good too?
you absolutely do and i absolutely have the right to humiliate you for it. [house enters the lab.]
white blood count's low; probably a result of the illness nothing to connect to the liver.
how's your tummy?
worse than before he's on a ventilator.
the estrogen level indicates it is.
it's never been tried on a human being. it could kill him.
they're running a trial on dogs at st. sebastian's in philadelphia. i'll make the call.
it's only been three hours. if it's the otd 
that severe a reaction it'll take some time 
ten year olds do not have heart attacks. it's gotta be a mistake.
i meant maybe the tests were wrong.
come on it takes decades to eat your way into a heart attack.
it's got to be something genetic.
syndrome x could cause a stroke but i don't know about a heart attack.
it's some kind of game house's own version of punk'd.
which is what house seems to want. i'm with cameron. may be a bad strategy but i don't want to give house his satisfaction. come on sick kid remember?
tell you a secret. when i was your age i was heavy too.
way over. the kids in my neighborhood used to call me rerun.
he was a heavy guy from tv. i used to pretend i liked it but i didn't.
ninth grade grew five inches everything kind of evened out.
well yeah! i mean your mom's tall and you are a little short for your age. you'll probably spring right up. [she steps on the scale.]
take it you've never seen a baby?
and you figure making her feel like crap would do her a world of good?
forget it. he's just cranky because he's the one who's going to get the axe.
like dr. chase.
she's sedated. mrs. simms don't worry. hypoglycemia can cause temporary psychosis and it's a common complication during a hec procedure.
nothing that could also cause a heart attack. [house starts to write on the whiteboard.]
like what?
if you're gonna fire someone go ahead and do it but don't treat us like lab rats testing how long it takes us to get us at one another's throats.
i don't give a damn what you do.
not my call.
chase.
anyone can make a mistake.
he doesn't appreciate the job.
he wants the job. he just doesn't appreciate it. there's nothing wrong with just wanting to hang out but this is not the place to do it.
you thought i'd pick cameron?
so you never saw her with any pills? she never mentioned anything?
would it be all right if i talked to a couple of her friends?
well i'm not going to interrogate them but i just want to ask if jessica ever mentioned anything. it's pretty important she's very sick.
not one?
kids?
i'll make sure her doctors are all clear on that.
so has she ever said anything to you about diet pills?
what do you mean?
right so it was her imaginary mom.
why would she lie?
where did you get them?
listen the pills cause blood clots heart attacks and insomnia. it explains everything. we'll keep her overnight to make sure but she'll be fine.
i'm sure she didn't even know they were dangerous. she probably saw them advertised on tv or over the internet.
have you seen the latest research?
right. [he gets up and starts to walk off.]
[entering] what happened?
you think she got a staph infection from something here?
as a result of the sedatives yeah. can't let her wake up too much pain.
at this point it's not exactly clear. you know i should probably talk to dr. house.
he doesn't tell me what to do.
i respect him.
what do you want?
if he chooses to let me go i can live with that.
you offering to protect me?
i want my job. [chase enters.]
wanted to know what warfarin is. i don't know.
her necrosis is getting worse.
what else can we do?
there's still a chance that the heparin treatment could start to take effect.
through surgery. technically it's an amputation.
i'm sorry but i'm gonna have to ask you to sign this.
i think we should get her into surgery.
can i have a second to think?
enough already okay? we've got it you hate fat people.
so did all her other doctors.
ulcers secondary to vaculitis.
genetics are more likely. her mom's heavy too.
except it's not cushing's. she's had multiple blood tests and none show abnormal cortisol levels.
if we assume it's not cushing's she'll lose her breasts and may still be sick.
you want us to look for hypercortisolism with an mri?
nothing on the adrenals. heard cameron went home she sick?
think she's got another reason for leaving?
a tumor.
the tumor causes cushing's. cushing's messes with hormone production. hormones control everything: growth weight 
she'll need surgery to remove the tumor. once it's gone everything will get normal very fast.
no.
the surgery's dangerous. the pituitary is located between the caverns of the sinuses basically right between the eyes. the area contains the nerves that control eye movement and the major arteries that feed the brain.
your surgeon will approach the gland transphenoidally. [while foreman is talking the surgery is taking place.] an incision will be made under the lip in which he'll insert a fiberoptic microscope. once the tumor's found he'll cut it into small pieces and remove it from the same hole under the lip. the whole procedure should take about three hours and your daughter should be able to go home in a few days. the sores will go away as well as her fatigue and her muscle pain. she'll even start losing weight.
jessica.
yeah. [jessica smiles.]
we're keeping your staff away as well. you're taking it easy now.
the faster we can get you better the faster you can get out of here. anyone else at the fundraiser get sick?
open your mouth please. [senator wright does and there's a nasty scar on his tongue.] that's quite a scar.
the lp showed no sign of infection and the mri was fairly clean.
well there is something in broca's area but it's small low intensity.
you wanna cut into his brain.
it's not a brain tumor.
you sure?
toxoplasmosis is a fairly common fungus you can get from eating undercooked meat or touching cat feces. in rare cases the fungi travel up the blood stream and into the brain causing a lesion or inflammation.
toxo usually responds to treatment but it only causes a lesion in your brain if your immune system is extremely weak to begin with. senator i'm afraid you have aids. as i'm sure 
as i'm sure you know people with hiv can live a long time.
theoretically certain cancers 
[quietly] we will.
this may sting a little. [the senator flinches.] sorry.
you know senator we don't have to do this now. we can wait until your hiv test comes back.
well in my experience 
whoa i don't think black politicians lie more than white politicians.
you figure we're morally superior?
yeah yeah. take a deep breath. [the senator groans in pain as foreman inserts the needle into his hip. ow.]
he's continuing to lose control of the muscles on his right side his brain is getting foggier and his t-cells are in the single digits.
this might hurt a little.
okay. it'll uh feel like a gentle massage.
have you ever told any really big ones?
strap his arm down.
i hope so.
kidney and liver cysts are both benign and lymph nodes all came back clean.
his brain's turning into mush and he's at risk for more infections so we have to do it.
hey senator. we need to do one more biopsy on your spleen.
you've been coughing a lot? does it hurt?
[while listening to his breathing] no this is this is new. you don't need to sign we can't do the biopsy.
the senator's breathing is severely impaired. his o2 stat levels are at 89. his silver stain indicates pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.
but we can't biopsy his spleen. respiratory distress? his platelets are 20 and dropping his blood won't clot worth a damn.
negative for htlv-1 and 2 and atlv and everything else. it's not hairy-cell. [he stops house.] hey. you really gonna give that speech?
i'm a little surprised. frankly i thought you were too much of a self-absorbed ass to do this for us.
so what? it doesn't point to hairy-cell it's irrelevant. [house pushes the chart at foreman and walks off very quickly.]
that's pretty much a childhood disease.
dr. house!
we just got back your latest blood results. your white cells are up your t-cells are back over 100.
in a week? that's terrific. you'll need medication for the rest of your life but other than that you're fine.
oh come on. kennedy had addison's fdr had polio. two of the best presidents in the last hundred years 
good for you.
well the good news is it doesn't look like a stroke. no bleeds no clots.
we got your blood work back. some things are a little off. your liver and kidneys aren't working so well.
preeclampsia is a possibility but let's not get ahead of ourselves.
how about we take care of both of you at the same time. the nurse will be in soon to draw some blood; i'd like to run some more tests.
no one's in the office?
heh. look for a shallow grave with vogler standing over it.
up and at em big guy. [house blinks and rubs his eyes.]
hiding because vogler's looking for you. that's just pathetic.
[holds out chart] 39-year-old female 28 weeks pregnant g 4 p 0.
altered mental status and complete loss of coordination.
negative for alcohol and drugs. she was on oxybutynin.
we took her off but no change. bun creatinine are up lft slightly elevated.
bp's normal; no preeclampsia in other pregnancies.
the three miscarriages make me think it's an underlying physiology.
cameron quit?
there is no way she quit! she got fired because you couldn't swallow your pride!
here pussy pussy pussy.
exactly my point.
when a dog dumps on the floor do you pat its head and call it a genius? no you smack it in the nose with a newspaper!
coward.
hey there! i brought my colleague along to help out.
lean forward.
it's probably just some muscle weakness. [they put naomi on her back and foreman starts to remove the offending food with tweezers.]
naomi open up.
could be a different auto-immunity. or you could bite me.
strong?
she's on magnesium already.
[to house who is rummaging through the cabinets] great to see you back in the office. i guess vogler found you?
what about the myasthenia?
she choked she couldn't even swallow.
her food. the muscle weakness isn't a symptom of preeclampsia.
a little bit of cooked pear it doesn't matter! it shows weakness.
check her eyelids?
sean do your wife's eyelids look any different than usual?
we'll need to do an x-ray.
it's important.
maybe it's a granuloma.
paged him twice.
she's saving her child. cameron would point out that people are capable of sacrifice.
perhaps proving her point.
i think people can overcome their baser drives.
good plan cure cancer. surprised no one ever thought of that before.
she can't start in two days! she's pregnant!
it's not your call.
these regulations aren't just here to annoy you okay? doing this is dangerous to the patient.
[to a nurse running in] respiratory distress.
still kicking.
lungs are clear. there it is.
gotta get her to an or.
[breaking off from the group to talk to sean] it's an embolism. a blood clot. it's fairly common with lung cancer. it's not a full saddle embolism so blood's still trickling through. we've been able to get naomi breathing a little but we need to remove the clot and we need you to approve the treatment.
it's not that simple okay. the best course for the baby would be an immediate c-section. the longer we postpone the greater chance it'll have brain damage from lack of oxygen.
here's the problem. the c-section would be very very dangerous for naomi.
in her current condition there's a real chance she wouldn't survive. i'm sorry. [pause] look your wife's unconscious we need you to make a decision.
stats are still way down. we've got to push the streptokinase.
she's hemodynamically compromised.
dad doesn't care.
bp's dropping. pressers!
systolic bp's 80. [chase gets the clot out.] bp's stabilizing o2 stats rising. [house enters the or in scrubs and minus his cane.]
she's up to 30 micrograms!
we won't be able to stop it. i'll go talk to the husband.
his lungs aren't opening up.
come on take a breath. you know you can do it. [the monitors beep. chase continues to work on the baby while foreman walks over to naomi.] what've you got?
pulse?
nothing.
[to chase] how's he doing?
your boy's doing good. [sean nods and bends over to kiss naomi.]
take these pills. a blue slip will get you out of here. next! [he automatically puts his hands up to find house next in line.]
or maybe it's meningitis.
rifampin is for meningitis. you just said 
that's why i said excuse me.' brenda i need a bed and
push me again. brenda i need a bed and a nurse for a lumbar puncture.
i've only got one.
cuddy only gave us an hour to work on the patient.
this novocaine will numb you for the lumbar puncture. sorry this has to be so public mary.
okay i need you to hold your knees and tuck your head.
exactly. [she does so.] good great. don't forget to breathe. [he's about to start the puncture when someone hits the gurney.]
geez! coach help me out here play a little defense before i poke the wrong thing? okay here we go. [he starts the puncture.]
try to relax mary try to relax.
[to a nurse] where's the 12-year-old girl that was here?
she just had a lumbar puncture she's not supposed to be moved!
hey.
you okay? how's your head feeling?
she shouldn't have been moved after the procedure i'm sorry.
no meningitis no other infections.
something's causing your symptoms. we're going to keep you overnight. i know it's a little crazy here but hopefully things will settle down and we'll get you a room. [mary starts to cry.]
oh don't worry. the antibiotic we gave you in case you had meningitis can turn your tears reddish. that's not blood. [he notices something and opens her mouth to reveal bloody teeth and gums.] but that that's blood.
people this area is highly contagious. please step back. highly contagious.
don't see any tears or lesions.
there was more than a tablespoon of blood in her stomach so it's got to be there. maybe her small intestine.
her blood pressure was high i was worried 
i don't see anything.
does ginormous mean really big or really really big cause i don't see anything.
oh. well we can burn off the swollen blood vessel but it still doesn't account for her other symptoms.
could be a precursor to intestinal intussusception.
it's not the intussusception what about stomach cancer?
well the lab's working at double their capacity maybe someone screwed up.
from here?
need more than 15 minutes.
come on you know i can't do a bone marrow aspiration in the hallway.
i just need something at least close to a sterile environment.
brenda listen listen. she'll die.
i hope that's who's in there. just be calm relax.
hang on hang on. almost done.
just got it out of storage. it is the previous generation but it works just fine. could you guys give us a second?
okay. we're pretty sure it's not cancer.
well we still can't release her. we still don't know yet exactly what's causing the  [a monitor beeps.] mary? [foreman looks into her eyes with his flashlight.]
she's having an absence seizure. mary you okay?
i need some help over here! [to a nurse] push two milligrams ativan stat!
absolutely. she was totally unresponsive and unaware of what was going on around her. [sounds of someone groaning in a stall. er yeah.]
seizure frequency's increasing. they're almost constant now. 5 in the last half hour.
it's definitely in the brain.
no can't be drugs. she's tested at every meet she competes in.
you think she's eating off the floor of her folks' garage?
who would poison a 12-year-old?
not a chance radiology's totally swamped.
she could be but a meningitis patient will be without a ct scan.
[to the doctor doing meningitis tests] excuse me.
i'm ultrasounding your head. you're still having seizures. this should help us figure out what's going on.
you were right there's a significant bleed in her temporal lobe.
mr. and mrs. carroll?
the operation went well. the intercranial pressure's been relieved and the swelling's already going down.
we're sorry we still don't know.
adrenal failure could cause the rash fever and muscle pain. maybe it's some sort of genetic kidney disorder.
not yet.
got a better idea?
she spends a lot of time at the pool so exposure to chemicals.
but never out of the country.
what about an allergic reaction?
what are you talking about?
some of the girls from her team. they've been visiting her pretty regularly but none of them are sick.
none of them are sick either.
actually none.
she's 12. the youngest guy on her team is 16.
you were right. rash wasn't a rash she's bleeding into her skin. it's purpura.
what could have set it off? she had no trace of e. coli in her cultures she's obviously not menopausal so no estrogen.
feeling okay?
how's your neck? [mary moves it around.] looks good. anything else we can get you?
okay. [they start to leave.]
lame. [he throws the ball which is caught by cameron walking in the door.]
yo!
please tell me you took him to the cleaners?
you scared a guy into stroking out?
ischemia. death of brain tissue. means there's been some damage hopefully not permanent.
that's it. there's nothing there to tell us what the underlying cause is. we've got to do an mri.
i'm looking at the brain what else is there?
so it's not money then? office space insurance parking anything he could offer you we'd be interested in.
[looking at chase incredulously] a date? date dinner and a movie naked and sweaty date?
it's a big mistake.
like watching an accident about to happen.]
morning! harvey i'm dr. foreman. i'm here to discuss your case. [harvey looks to annette.]
nice to meet you. i need your next of kin you didn't fill that out on your intake form. [harvey again looks to annette.]
i see. so harvey you have any siblings?
annette i don't want to have to ask you to leave.
well she can stay. [pointedly] you do the talking. why'd you come to the clinic this morning?
yeah i think i know what nominal aphasia is. have you had any treatment for the teeth grinding?
needles? someone took your blood.
pulmonologist.
uh huh. [to annette again] do you know what the acupuncturist did?
naturally.
back to the acupuncturist.
okay. well we'll need to see the records from all of those uh practitioners.
everything set for the angiogram?
harvey's guru.
that's what she acted like. [foreman leaves. annette looks out the window and sees chase; chase looks away.]
the only abnormal test result we found was on the echo report. mitral valve prolapse.
clot's formed on a faulty valve gets sent to the brain voila! stroke.
trauma? from what the chiropractic treatments? it's bacterial endocarditis an infected valve. we should do blood cultures.
you're choking him!
[holding annette] she was trying to kill him!
what the hell is going on in here?
yeah why would you want to be in a relationship with someone that's so obviously only going to lead to pain?
i think chase is right.
i said chase was probably right.
[quietly to chase] is that part of their deal or
emotional swings he's having another stroke. harvey! [the monitors beep and harvey's eyes roll up.]
he said they were dead.
maybe harvey burned through their money.
hey can i talk to you?
look cameron's a friend. this whole dating thing 
hey i've been on the scene more than you recently.
come on you're not into her. most guys who aren't interested in a woman try to sugarcoat it be nice.
that's what i'm saying. i think you should go with your instincts here. be a jerk.
women love to be right. you've got to leave them feeling superior. like they've dodged a bullet. if you're nice she'll blame herself 
[laughing] yeah i'm the one with the serious ego problem here. i'm just saying: some relationships aren't meant to happen. [foreman leaves.]
harvey. h-a-r-v-e-y.
you tell him why you were calling?
call back.
came in late. had a good time last night?
yeah. crying in your pillow can do that.
no snide comments?
you two going to do dinner again?
he's had two more post-op. we won't know the extent of the damage until he comes out of the coma. if he comes out.
it was hidden from the scans by the metal plate.
the guy might only have a couple of hours. [they open the gate but close it again as a dog comes up barking at them.]
the patient responded to epinephrine and the allergic reaction was arrested. unfortunately the patient continues to deteriorate.
he faxed us the venom tests which confirmed it's a timber rattlesnake.
i skimmed over that and the gender and the coloring and skipped right to the name of the snake.
that's why these people are here. if you have a reaction we're ready to do whatever's necessary to ensure your airway stays open and your heart keeps beating.
i'm sorry it can't. [he begins to inject the serum and nothing happens. house nods and leaves the room to be confronted by the late 30s man.
vit. d intoxification.
caused by our treatment?
what farmer?
already did.
i'll hold him you swab the mouth.
what are you serious?
one two three! [he puts out two fingers while chase puts out one.]
just do it! [chase tries to swab the dogs mouth but pulls back.]
i got his head just do it!
well dogs' mouths are pretty filthy but they have natural antibodies to fight off most of the stuff. we don't. that's why dog bites can be so nasty. the lab test of your dog's saliva revealed a type of strep bacteria. it's commonly known as the flesh eating disease. we'll need to operate immediately to remove the damaged tissue. we may need to remove the leg.
[sitting with chase and cameron in the back] god you were right. it's house.
you choose to believe that?
i know. you made milk come out of my nose. [house enters.]
ben goldstein says the schedule's locked. he can't do it before tomorrow.
mrs. warner. the surgery went well; he's in recovery you can see him now. [she leaves; house stands. quietly to house --] goldstein found nothing but a distended bladder.
also doesn't cause personality changes. on the other hand it would completely account for cameron's diagnosis  the patient's completely healthy.
unbelievable.
means there's some sort of neurological problem.
saw a very small diffuse abnormality in the brain waves. probably white matter. means his axonal nerves are dying. explains the neurogenic bladder.
global axonal nerve death. likely causes are encephalitis or alzheimer's. [he starts to write on the white board.]
[uncovering a bike from under a tarp] serious mountain bike. hasn't been used in a while though.
man's getting older.
wife would have mentioned it.
not when you do it in your own home. the change could just be a change not a symptom. [he opens a cabinet in the kitchen to find a plate of cookies with a note on them.] chase! [reading the letter] dear house boys a snack for your highly illegal search. hope you like oatmeal raisin. love stacy.
regularly used could lead to neurotoxicity. explains the axonal nerve damage and the personality issues. [house picks up the bottle.]
mark's a high school guidance counselor.
we're going to inject a chemical marker called fddnp. then i'm going to ask you a series of questions.
yeah. first we're gonna map out some specific brain functions check out the engine before we take the car for a drive. [foreman enters the room next to the machine and finds house hiding in wait.] checking up on me?
okay [into the mike] here we go. your full name?
is your mother living?
limbic system's intact. [into the mike] okay say you find a stamped envelope on the street. what do you do?
this serves no diagnostic purpose.
you gotta to stop this now.
it's not paranoia if someone's out to get you.
his symptoms mimic a peripheral nervous system under attack.
no no. i already did an indirect coombs' test. no glutination no antibodies!
no antibodies means he doesn't have guillain-barre period!
come on the chances of that are 
it would mean he's sick and his body's not doing anything about it.
you grilled him about stacy.
minimal involvement. just the frontal and temporal lobes.
there's only one way to confirm aip: urine sample made during the attack.
still no change.
no no change at all.
you need the consent from him.
this is not good. he could have embolism tachycardia stroke  [foreman is interrupted by mark who goes into an attack.]
it's not an attack he's stroking!
heart rate's in the 40s bradycardia we're losing him!
you were wrong! [house doesn't listen but grabs a syringe and sticks the needle into mark's bladder pulling out the urine sample.]
