plus her lung's fried. she needs a donor lung to live which is the only treatment for lam anyway.
by girls between 10 and 14.
good morning gentlemen. (looking at their tired faces) well if it's any consolation i didn't get any sleep either. (opening and reading alice's chart) unilateral hyperhidrosis. interesting.
mercury poisoning?
if it's low level it might not show up in a spot check. we need to run continuous testing to find it.
who were you talking to?
and talking to them?
(clearly impressed) that... how?
(pointing to taub) do him.
must be an allergic reaction to the chelation agent.
pain seizures hyperhidrosis and sudden onset of radically high blood pressure.
could be hemolytic uremic syndrome.
sitting in bed. she claims it was only in her imagination but still.
comparing taub to her ex-husband. she really hated the guy.
what's wrong?
and finding a pheochromocytoma without using the mri could take us a week.
or use them to rule areas out.
you think you can get her to try to kill herself again? we're gonna need more time.
found something. it's not a tumor. whatever it is it's encased around her heart.
she has a pericardial effusion.
or maybe a cancer.
is there anything in it that pertains to our case?
why not?
we're treating a patient... not a book.
if we can get her medical records from back then we can use them to pinpoint the location.
we can't find her old medical records.
exactly. nothing to do with the fact that you instructed me to hire one. dr. house this is dr. kelly benedict your new fellow.
she's not like cameron.
that's more of a second week type activity. we'll do the angiogram. i'll meet you in radiology third floor.
she was nervous. give her a break. oh and she's not like cameron.
you did fine. house is just trying to get at me. and he's wrong by the way. i hired you because you're the most qualified applicant. injecting dye.
oh well he takes a little while to warm up. in my case i'm hoping year seven does the trick. tapering cutoff in the left branch of the hepatic artery.
probably. look at her rib cage.
no she didn't.
we're going to need to see the records from the operation.
the strange stuff we found in your liver it's probably hepatic fibrosis but it could also just be a screw-up from the old surgery.
no. kelly knows nothing about the concept of married names. it wasn't covered in her psychiatry residency.
carotid massage?
why not just place a chair above a trap door with a shark tank underneath?
you're giving her a test.
you got a better answer than she does then let's hear it.
thank you.
well it was nice to see you finally taking an interest in my life. we should go bowling sometime.
she's smart. you didn't interview her.
she was editor for rutgers' daily undergrad newspaper. that shows a lot more guts and determination than med school grades.
45 minutes at least.
well she's stable but it's too early to tell if the pralidoxime is working. come on go home. you can't re-cram all of med school right now.
you were the editor of your school paper. i think you know how to deal with pressure.
on your resume it said rutgers daily herald editor. didn't it?
ah.
not entirely.
oh no uh i'm not. you might want to check out volume two on infectious diseases. [chase's pager goes off] patient's husband just got admitted to the e.r.
we've got to get you thinking like house. the husband's in the e.r. if he's got similar symptoms it could mean environmental.
exactly.
coincidence?
all right here's one big piece of advice. house doesn't buy coincidences. [chase pulls back the curtain to find billy. his face is pummeled and bleeding] okay it's not environmental. what happened to you?
looks like someone kicked your ass. what happened?
you get arrested?
what's up?
i'll be right up. your wife just spiked a fever.
she wasn't poisoned.
what are you doing?
yeah she'd love to become a target for your ridicule.
kelly's her first name.
oh come on. house!
you're wrong.
no.
so who gives a crap if i prepped her?
why are you doing this? you trying to make me look bad so you look better or you don't like her or you're angry at me? what?
you especially why?
you're what? you're my boss or something?
so that's what it is. you're angry that house gave me the chance to hire someone because you still think you're at a different level to everyone else. that's just pathetic.
which is reflected in what exactly? your title? no. your salary? not really. your responsibilities? hardly. your attitude? ah. i think we finally found it.
or the fact that you're courageously picking on kelly because you're scared to take on house. congratulations. you're a real leader.
i didn't know you smoked.
you're right. i'm sorry. you work with house and you kind of get a messed-up perspective of what's permissible in the workplace.
no. you're smart. you're hard-working.
use what makes you different. a lot of this job is reading people dealing with them. you're a psychiatrist use your skills.
or lymphoma or wegeners. we'd have to biopsy it to be sure. any of them could explain all of the symptoms.
because it probably is.
just say hold on next time!
so what. she was on the cooling blanket.
tell house one of the patient's symptoms just disappeared.
so relapsing remitting fever.
without vomiting?
it's not a coincidence. you've gotta stop doing this.
still hallucinating.
okay so i made a mistake. kelly will make a fine doctor but she's not ready for the team.
what? you like her now?
okay. i will.
[leaning so he can see house as the elevator doors close on him.] that's not why i hired her!
what are you doing?
hold on.
what?
yeah sorry it didn't work out. you want to get dinner tomorrow night?
her liver enzymes are elevated.
she's oozing from her iv site. it's a symptom of liver failure. it's what we would expect to see.
it looks like dilated bile ducts.
that means that it's a stricture in the ducts themselves. caroli's syndrome.
isolating the common bile duct.
another bolus of phenylephrine.
heart plus the liver. could be tuberous sclerosis.
best treatment for a vascular malformation is surgery. and i think your wife thinks you shouldn't think anything of dr. cheng.
what if we started the baby on steroids an anti-angiogenesis agent and dopamine?
house is gonna hate anyone we hire because he doesn't want to hire [gesticulates wildly] ...anyone.
then he'll just mock you for being a wuss. you're screwed.
and you can tell that from the vast amount of information you've gleaned from not being here?
so can churg strauss... pretty much any auto-immune disease.
she's a med student?
hep c makes sense.
tetrachloroethylene. could even be pennyroyal or sassafras oil.
we think it's a transient ischemic attack. the clot must have broken up before we could find it. he was temporarily paralyzed but he's regaining mobility and speech.
masters is right about a neuroendocrine tumor. because yes dugan has had a loss of judgment. he made this totally inflammatory anti-immigration campaign commercial for anderson. it just got leaked online.
no his tactics. he's most likely the one who leaked it and all the commentators are saying anderson will catch a major backlash.
why would i do that? the entertainment factor is off the charts. it's like watching a bunny hop into a buzz saw. repeatedly.
no something else is stopping house from firing her. i'm guessing it's his desire to keep having sex with cuddy.
so when you leaked that ad you were trying to torpedo the senator's campaign?
uh-huh.
that commercial everyone sees through it. you're just trying to play to people's fears.
i waited five years to get my green card. if there's anyone who would resent someone trying to skip the queue it'd be me. just because moreno favors amnesty
200000. it's not t.t.p.
once again the bunny meets the blade.
we had him on aztreonam for the e coli. he didn't respond.
i think i've figured it out. why taub didn't like masters.
my previous source of entertainment just got fired.
she's totally moral and uptight which made taub feel badly about his cheating.
so it's something about how she looked.
hello?
when did your lawyer say he was coming to get us?
that is brilliant.
well i barely remember you.
you think he contracted hep c from the senator right? test anderson. if it's positive that's evidence dugan has it too.
if you're done mocking him we need to prep for an lp.
gorgeous woman half his age. he's a lucky guy.
if we're talking about your wife it means the chickens are coming home to roost.
(to masters) taub has been known to dabble. (he looks back at taub) used to be.
so what looks like an infection but doesn't test like one?
i'm sure your wife's just seeing a dude.
unless this guy's sleeping in the manger
no.
(looking inside ramon's mouth) then again maybe we were wrong.
yeah maybe the carpenter builds microwave ovens.
heavy metal poisoning fits. canned tuna sushi lead paint.
you're okay with burglary now?
did you ask for his key too?
and now we know why. you think he's crazy?
the place is too new. he believes in a higher power that can affect his life. like most people on the planet.
(examining some shelf contents) no canned tuna. and i don't think we have to worry about sushi.
(leafing through a book he has found on the counter) he reads. prayer's been proven to aid recovery.
so faith comes from within. not exactly a newsflash.
it's not worry. it's starvation. his tooth didn't fall out because of heavy metal poisoning. it fell out because of malnutrition.
taub was right. he just didn't know why.
you want us to do a differential diagnosis on jesus?
i've heard of that group. it's called irony.
sounds like the perfect place to hit on vulnerable women.
it looks like m.s.
it was hiding behind the malnutrition. m.s. attacks the immune system. no system no symptoms.
it's not m.s.
he's getting worse on the prednisone. it's not m.s.
it would be if it wasn't embryonic stem cell treatment. our patient's right of the pope. he's never gonna consent to that.
i just spotted a couple of hot girls by the chocolate fountain.
and it wouldn't have happened if not for you buddy. someone had to distract the sober friend.
i'll be your wingman this time.
then don't. talking to beautiful women isn't nearly as much fun as watching taub not talking to his wife.
well i can't complain about my boss. he's right here.
only mondays through fridays. (putting his arm around foreman's shoulder) on the weekends he's my bro.
36 hours is long enough for me to recover. and not nearly long enough for this guy to be getting better.
(to foreman) sorry i took off on you.
first one was my bad. second one i had no choice. it was a threesome.
house is on the lam from someone. taub's got his money on wilson but i'm pretty sure it's cuddy.
could be leukemia. anemia from taking over the marrow a-fib from infiltrating cardiac muscle.
okay what disease can turn cuddy's mother into a coma patient named stewart?
because house doesn't care about the treatment as long as the case is interesting.
oh guess we're still on arlene.
with no murmurs?
echo showed pristine valves.
you gonna run this by cuddy?
give me your prescription pad.
because i think it's endocarditis and i think the prednisone will kill her. and i forgot my prescription pad.
had the bag walking towards the room and cuddy's sister says hey dr. chase. i met her at that charity event last year. one of you two has got to do this.
yep.
how perfect is perfect?
that's a big spike in discoordination.
cardiac involvement rules out parkinson's.
an excess of catecholamine could set off an arrhythmia.
it'll have to be drug-induced. treadmill will pull her stitches.
her heart rate isn't moving. the sister stress pot needs stirring.
just agitate a little. use something from the history. you're not lying to them. in fact you'd be telling the truth and serving their medical needs.
masters.
smell her breath. (masters leans in close to nadia) (to nadia) breathe out.
maybe she went vegan because she lost the taste for protein. it could be amyloidosis.
he asked.
you're gonna need another round of steroids. in the meantime i'll start your dialysis. so i heard elena might be coming back.
well we all hold our grudges.
so no one ever gets forgiven? sounds like a lonely way to live.
respiratory distress means we were wrong about autoimmune.
you think this is an allergic reaction? it can't be. we pumped her full of steroids.
we look for another case. even if you're right about autoimmune we now don't have time to prove it. the transplant board will never give her a kidney.
which relative? the sister who walked away and told you she was never coming back?
that relationship was broken long before we got there. nadia literally keeps score. she tallies everything. (they stop and chase turns to include house in the conversation) she decided elena's done more bad things to her than good doesn't deserve her affection.
we found a donor. it's your sister. just thought you should know. (he closes the door and leaves)
nadia can you hear me? you're coming out of your anesthesia. you're gonna feel a bit groggy. you did great. everything's looking good. nadia come on now open your eyes.
(to a nurse) three milligrams of lorazepam and i'm going to need suction.
seizures mean the steroids aren't working.
could be acute porphyria.
no. not yet at least.
we haven't considered her blood. clots could hit her leg heart kidney and brain.
how are you feeling?
it'll take some time for the clots to resolve. your sister's recovering well. if you're really adding up the good and bad
i understand now why you stuck yourself in that diner away from friends away from family. you can't forgive anyone. i don't think you weigh anything. i think you're like a lot of people. you focus on the bad memories instead of the good.
nadia put your hand in your lap for a moment.
i know. it's an involuntary movement called choreia.
it means we still don't know what's wrong with you.
she tried to reconcile but the bad memories crowded out the good and she ran.
each brain with ocd has its own way of filtering it. some people wash their hands and hoard tv guides. you do puzzles and hoard memories.
it can't be cured. but your various symptoms can be managed with medication. best-case scenario you can live another 20 years.
how you feeling?
i don't believe what house said. i'm not sure even house believes it anymore. (he sits down on the bed) you said you didn't have a choice to be the way you are. now you do. (pulling a pill bottle from his pocket) these are ssris. they've been effective in treating ocd.
not lose it entirely. it'll just become more like anyone else's.
maybe so. but if you want to be special you're gonna have to be alone.
his hearing is almost completely gone.
16-year-old male spit up blood during a pick-up basketball game. e.r. couldn't find the source in his lungs or gi tract.
infection makes the most sense. he shoots hoops at school showers in the locker room. i'm thinking staph.
everything okay with cuddy?
kidney mass wouldn't explain the coughing blood or the hemorrhages. antiphospholipid syndrome on the other hand
he's not talking about the patient.
house told me to keep you company. nurse told me to give you antibiotics.
mm! tom cruise got married. [they both smile. they read in silence for a few moments.] do you want me to quote from first corinthians? 'cause i can do that.
don't know what you're missing. st. paul was really on his game. [pause] he'll show up eventually.
love hopes all things.
aah!
what if we had it backwards and it's not a bleeding problem it's a clotting problem?
house. [house looks at him.] we're worried too.
okay but in the meantime<U+0097>
bigger question <U+0097> what's the deal with taub? just because house is too distracted to notice your distraction doesn't mean we didn't.
why is it anyone's problem? i violently executed my tenth grade geometry teacher about five different ways in my mind.
unless it is. someone shot house.
yes. officer i'd like to report an assault. the victim was a pile of leaves.
so we either up his dosage or go into his head and get the clot out. where's house?
there's the clot. [the clot visible on the monitor disappears.] it just disintegrated when you touched it.
he's busy.
[ignoring her] patient's blood tests were negative for barbiturates or acetaminophen. he's not on a high protein diet.
[voice over] house couldn't concentrate on the case before she was dying. you think he's gonna get in the game now?
it causes abdominal cramping not abdominal bleeding.
type 2 citrullinemia fits.
ten years of doctors cobbling him back together. metal rods in every limb. pins stabilizing his spine. five screws and a titanium plate in his skull.
oh is that the reason? i thought it was because you can't pass up any chance to seize control.
wow you really don't have any friends in here do you?
go ahead? really? what if one of us disagrees? [taub and masters stop. long pause.] i happen to agree with foreman. go do it.
[foreman starts to talk but chase interrupts.] it could be a tumor in a salivary gland. we should get a parotid biopsy.
if we don't have any equipment
[hands inside lane's abdomen] do you see what i see?
exactly.
it's gone now.
you uh gonna introduce us?
what about a ventricular puncture?
so's mri'ing his heart. he's got a seven-centimeter conductive metal rod holding his rib together. it'll rip him in two.
his e.e.g. didn't show any sign of seizure activity.
you're saying we put pressure on his aorta until it rips open? you do realize the downside of that?
it's a ridiculous idea. it won't work.
rib spreader in place.
let's switch him over to bypass for the debridement. come on. we don't have much time.
damn. clamp.
do it anyway. we need suction and more sponges.
[attaching a clamp] no it's not. we can fix this.
ride some kind of prostitute chariot to work?
doing what exactly?
in the park right next to a big pile of questions.
vitamin injections could have caused that hypervitaminosis a syndrome.
how'd you kick it?
you're saying god cured you?
i thought it might be parasites but we didn't see any movement between x-ray exposures.
ex-junkie claims he's been clean for over three months.
what about foster kennedy syndrome? he could have a meningioma or plasmacytoma. started by pressing on his olfactory nerves it affects his sense of smell and now it's growing and pressing on his optic nerve.
give him a break.
i want you to show him a little respect.
he believes god gave him a second chance. that kind of belief can be powerful.
he has hope. after all he's been through it kind of makes me root for him.
and he faked the scars?
should i ask him to stay still while he does that? (they go to get danny out of the machine)
panic attack. he's claustrophobic. he was fine once we let him out.
sounds like regional pain syndrome. has to be a genetic disorder.
we need to talk to you about your son danny.
we need to know if you or perhaps his mother have any family history of genetic disease.
um not why we came here. we just want to know if there's any diagnosed genetic disease in your family.
and at the rate it's happening he'll need a new one soon. and there's no way we'll get him on the transplant list.
except that he's gotten worse since we admitted him.
allergic reaction? we treated him with vicodin clozapine and one i.v. bag of levodopa.
we can save his life.
they say true love doesn't exist anymore. maybe it never did. so without further ado
do you dominika patrova take this man to be your lawfully wedded husband?
and do you gregory house take this woman to be your lawfully wedded wife? (dominika puts a ring on house's finger)
then by the power vested in me by the state of new jersey just for today i now pronounce you man and wife. you may kiss the bride.
those of you with cameras please feel free to provide legal documentation.
we didn't call them they just showed up. danny's dna when we sent it to the lab for testing it set off alarm bells all over the country.
he's a serial killer who eats his victims.
you're back.
hi.
she's that canadian kid who's trying to be the youngest person to sail around the world.
what's with the sudden interest in her future?
probably on the balcony.
low cardiac output can cause both. patient possibly has cardiomyopathy. possibly caused by mercury poisoning from all the tuna fish she eats at sea.
add that to a calcified pineal gland.
salmonella enteritis is a nice catch.
once this case is over you going back to surgery?
i think that's a mistake. i think you should go back to surgery.
no. you said it was your plan. which means house might be right. and you might be lying to yourself.
my time here changed me in ways not everyone in my life thought was for the better. no masses. moving on to bone windows.
i think when you do change it's not so simple to go back. there. in the humerus.
that's because it looks like cancer.
likely paraneoplastic syndrome.
subclavian access established.
you don't seem congested.
nope. try to stay as still as possible. this shouldn't take long.
couldn't hurt to start activated charcoal see what happens.
just because he has guns doesn't make him a murderer.
look in the desk. see if he's got a diary or a journal.
just look. i'm gonna check out the rest of the place see if he's got a computer.
why would she lie?
we'll know soon. i stopped her treatment.
what if it's a kidney infection? acute pyelonephritis could kill her if we don't start her on iv antibiotics.
ct and ultrasound showed inflammation in the renal capsule. could be an obstructing calculus or a perinephric abscess.
yes let's just dismiss an idea because it's probably nothing.
charging to 200. clear. [taub pulls back.]
charging to 300.
clear.
we've got a problem.
if it's the defibrillator i'd be looking elsewhere. [lifting the blankets.] smells like bleeding.
and vaginal.
same goes for house. if this was about cuddy he would have checked out weeks ago. something else is going on. something new.
house is rational. he prides himself<U+0097>
what about this? 28-year-old woman presenting with burn-like wounds in her mouth and esophagus from a candidiasis infection.
guy that she works most closely with is also her boyfriend. you don't think he would have told us if there had been some sort of chemical spill or accident?
inflammation of the genitals means we were wrong.
you'd think so wouldn't you? [taub comes in and takes a seat.] foreman wants to keep shooting for radiation poisoning.
yes she's gonna die in considerably less discomfort thanks to you treating a few of the symptoms instead of the disease.
bad news is because of your extended exposure to her and her workplace we're gonna need to treat you as well.
you're gonna need a bone marrow transplant.
she's getting better.
you're either suicidal or you know we're wrong. and the only way you could know for sure what wasn't killing her is if you knew what was. and you do don't you?
our co-workers are on their way to your home right now to search for poisons. you mind saving them the trouble?
(sleepily answering the phone) hello.
yeah i'm uh i'm about to go out.
who's the father?
one portable ultrasound extra pepperoni.
your socks are dry. and unfortunately so is your shirt which means you either just changed to greet me or you need this for something medical. (thirteen hesitates)
i am a doctor.
you killed your own brother?
have you talked to anybody about it? i mean are you okay?
try a long axis view from the suprasternal notch.
wonderful. (he puts on a pair of latex gloves) take it you two were cell mates.
her fingers are turning blue. (to darrien) can you move those?
maybe the wound threw a clot. check axillary arteries.
stop. (pointing to a spot on the monitor) right there.
fat-filled sack. probably aggravated by the stab wound. (still rummaging) you got any syringes in here?
that's not a lipoma.
(pulling on a fresh pair of latex gloves) not good enough. we don't know if it's gonna come back. we don't even know what it is <U+0097> drugs viruses toxins from that crack house and god knows where else she's been.
what about her hep-c? could have fried her liver. loses its synthetic function.
that leaves us with toxins. (to darrien) where exactly were you when you were attacked?
apparently we don't have much of a choice.
explains the bloody mass. but if you're right she could start bleeding anywhere like in her brain or in her heart.
it's time to get you to the hospital.
we could also embalm her right here.
so she's bleeding in her brain now.
no. we bring her to the hospital we do a ct scan to locate the bleed drill a burr hole in her skull and maybe she'll be fine.
you're not just risking our careers here. you could go back to prison.
you made a promise?
great. then i will.
i'm gonna move you and then i'm gonna pick your friend up carry her down to my car take her to the hospital and try to save her life.
move.
(loudly) move!
she's going to the hospital.
(glancing back) elevate her head more.
i'll go in first. i'll find a patient on life support just waiting to die. we'll use their name on all your tests. no one will ever know you're there.
sounds like a cop.
you were defending your friend beyond all rationality granting her the right
not that much.
you promised your brother you'd euthanize him and you think you won't feel bad about it as long as you can blame it on the promise. that's why you have this twisted obligation to keep all promises or your carefully constructed defense mechanism could crumble down.
image just blurred. did she wake up?
infection?
it has to be from the stabbing.
well then what's wrong with her?
and we can't exactly ask the patient.
we didn't think we had anything mysterious until<U+0097>
and you think this is relevant?
find anything?
(putting a cup down on the table beside thirteen) is your neck okay?
i'll get you some ice.
i shouldn't have grabbed you so hard.
2008? is that possible?
house was right. she could have only had her hep-c for a few years.
(sitting down beside her) so what makes new hep-c look like old hep-c?
entamoeba. if they were in a parasitoma the stab wound could have freed them sent them coursing through her bloodstream wreaking havoc.
you really should talk to someone.
well maybe you should talk to someone who isn't a therapist.
let's grab a coffee.
late night?
is there a good part? it was performance art.
house you should relax. you had surgery this morning.
put there during major surgery.
[leaning in to watch the monitor] what is that <U+0097> paint thinner?
i'm not gonna watch a woman get set on fire.
arrhythmia high hematocrit and inconsistent rr variability.
the monkey-mask-shaving medium really speaks to you?
not without bronchospasm.
ultrasound showed a cyst on her pancreas <U+0097> we drained it.
exactly. she's risking her life all the time.
i'm sorry.
the colonoscopy didn't find the bleed so we got to look by your liver.
could it be leaking into her thighs?
so where's the blood going? [foreman inspects afsoun's feet.] why are you looking down there?
you want us to waste a bed on her?
how do we know we can take her word for it?
grey turner's sign.
but you must know that. the doctor who diagnosed you would have said what will happen if you don't get treatment.
it's wegener's granulomatosis. biopsy confirmed that what you thought was eczema was actually a swelling of the blood vessels in your skin. it also explains the pancreatitis and the mass in your brain. and it's treatable.
we could do steroids alone to shrink the growth in your brain but it's much better to add another course of radiation.
