i'm thinking the broken bones are a response to the building falling on her head. [gives her a but-i-could-be-wrong shrug]
[interrupting] put her on antipyretics.
can't take the case. i don't have a team.
what for? i don't have a case.
you test drive a car before you buy it. you have sex before you get married. i can't hire a team based on a ten-minute interview. what if i don't like having sex with them?
in what twisted universe does mastering eddie van halen's two-handed arpeggio technique count as absolutely nothing?
[betting] i diagnose her alone by the end of the day you go away for a week.
[announcing as he writes] fever. non-responsive to antibiotics and antipyretics.
fluctuating consciousness. go!
[thinks a sec] yes.
imagine that the roof of the storage closet collapses on your favorite [seeing the spray bottle in leon's hand] floor buffer. which then starts overheating.
hmm interesting. brain damage leading to hypothalamic dysregulation.
nah. if you're brought in covered in rubble it's all about the mris. we'd have seen that. [clapping his hands] c'mon! gotta earn that fiver.
lacerations leave multiple portals for infection. bacteria would've responded to the antibiotics. 's too high for viral.
[as he writes] parasites or fungus is possible.
[writing] okay autoimmune. i'll run a lupus panel. infection fits best. complete history would be helpful. which leads to the worst part of the job.
dealing with the floor buffer's family.
you get that dr. buffer?
the file says she was sick before the building collapsed.
her being sick and her being sick? often is.
[as cruel as he can be] i'm not even sure you're gonna be okay.
show-off.
you know how the laughter of little children is infectious? well parasites and fungi are even more so. we're gonna find out which one is making her brain bubble over.
epa's doing that job for us. they say it's clean. which means we're making a pilgrimage to castle blackberry.
no need. i'm sure we can find a large rock somewhere.
[patting his pocket] i got some loose change here says you don't.
what restaurant?
oh. [points to one house] uhhh this one's homier. dibs on the cold pizza.
oops.
you're right. only one solution. never replace them. ever.
yeah yeah patronize the poor cripple.
[wincing] ow.
i got it.
i'll check the bedroom.
[calling out as if hard at work] some interesting mold on the windowsill here! it's gonna take me a while.
she had a secret diary.
what're you doing?
if you're broke i can lend you a tiny bit of the money i owe you.
it's basically a list of her sexual encounters. boys girls vibrating appliances.
[reading the diary] this is a parade of sad banalities. i can hardly get out of bed. feeling blue. then three months ago turns into a parade of happy banalities. starting to turn the corner. job's looking up.
or she's less depressed. aren't there pills that do that?
not on their own. but the er didn't know she was on mao inhibitors so they gave her demerol. 's a nasty combo.
i only have to convince the mother. [thinks] actually i don't have to convince anyone.
more significantly a blabbermouth.
i'm miserable around ben.
not me. i like ben. [pulling out the diary] february 12th. [tosses it to ben] either she's depressed or she just thinks you're a jerk. neither suggests that you should be the one directing her medical treatment.
no but medically
she's probably hiding them in her purse. [stands] i thought it'd be rude to go searching under a thousand tons of rubble.
fine maybe the diary proves nothing. on the other hand half the country's on antidepressants. and it fits her symptoms perfectly.
[to mrs. bradberry] no ring on your daughter's finger means you make the decisions.
you really wanna risk her life on how well _he_ knows her?
[into phone] wilson you idiot.
give it back.
where'd you hide it?
yeah it takes a cr
it takes a criminal mastermind to pull off a heist from an unlocked unguarded room down the hall. what do you want?
[stubborn] i don't need a team.
[victorious] and solved the case!
fascinating. equally fascinating is why are you here?
i explained the fever. which is all we were talking about.
she confirmed the antidepressants. go bet with someone else if you want to explain the heart problems.
she got better when i treated her. even i'm not that cute.
[putting the polaroid on his desk] fine what explains the fever and persistent tachycardia?
nope. fever no infection.
[hands her a marker] keep going you're doing great.
you win.
i'm not gonna play this game. just give me the damn r<e9>sum<e9>s.
and my guitar.
huh! you didn't write anything. so what you're saying is you didn't find that one big explanation 'cause there isn't one. clever.
okay [clears his throat] a structure collapsed
come on it fits. crushed musculature releases potassium causes v-tach.
microvascular occlusions. takes that long for the blood to reperfuse.
does it sound good?
there are no other things it could be.
excellent question.
the heart's fine.
i can't say.
i know i just can't say. 'cause you'll hit me. let's discuss this in front of witnesses.
her first fever was from the medication for her depression.
the second fever was from the self-medication for depression.
[shrugs] you were practically living with sylvia plath. you didn't notice that.
fine i'll do liver enzyme tests.
[whispers in mock-frustration] they don't know that. just pretend to confirm.
hair of the dog iv alcohol. taper it off after a few days.
[into phone] hi could i speak to trevor [checks the r<e9>sum<e9>] kaufman?
[into phone] this is dr. gregory house. can you come in tomorrow to interview?
[into phone] did you ever see raid on entebbe?
[into phone] the ugandans played fair. they didn't move the hostages on the israelis.
[into phone] what is el fuego del amor and why do you need ten of them?
[into phone] say adios.
[into phone bronson-like] i don't negotiate with terrorists. i smoke them out of their hidey-holes.
[into phone challenging] bring-it-on.
[cheerful] morning!
apes if you believe the democrats. i heard you were there when i was proven right. the alcohol treatment took away the heart and fever problems.
iv alcohol can cause pancreatitis.
you're not gonna argue with me?
you think i'm right?
why not?
it's not really a yes or no question.
if it's not the iv alcohol it's gotta be the
if i'm wrong she's gonna die. are you sure you're still dean of medicine?
[counting on his fingers] mao inhibitor caused the fever. alcohol caused the pancreatitis. alcohol withdrawal caused the v-tach
[reading] your logic is irrefutable.
well who're you gonna believe? a classic toy or a woman who if she had any confidence in her ideas wouldn't feel the need to distract you with a water bra?
are you here to enable me?
wow so you can enable and rationalize at the same time. i guess you are still dean of medicine.
yes imagine that a couple with secrets.
[staring him down] i am not hiring a team.
[mumbling] oh god.
i told you i don't need a team.
that wouldn't be right.
i've become a man of principle. i've gotten smarter. what answer will make socrates shut up?
[looking at the monitor] damn. there's no abnormalities in her pancreas.
there's increased t2 signal on her hepatic capsule. [looking at wilson] if you know what i mean.
now if you'll excuse me my patient is about to start bleeding out of her mouth and anus.
not anymore. now it's all over the place.
that's my patient down there.
i know.
you do know that the patient had a building land on her.
bleeding can start at any time.
she got warfarin after her hip surgery. it's designed to mess with bleeding patterns.
[dogged] i only cling to this crazy theory because it's been proven right every step of the way. each treatment worked.
if i had a team this patient would be dead. because they'd be here instead of me and they wouldn't notice the size of this woman's uterus.
hi! how's it going? mind if i observe?
oh stop that.
am i made of money?
enlarged uterus. means that she was recently pregnant. she's a good liar but i doubt she could hide a baby from her boyfriend.
scraping in the uterus indicates that she had an abortion. but nothing in her medical history. only one reason to hide an abortion. boyfriend wants babies she doesn't.
it's not the abortion it's what she did after. the boyfriend would have noticed condoms. he would notice abstinence. he would not notice the pill. which means [to cuddy] i don't need a team!
hey where's your mother-in-common-law?
[to doug] she's dead?
well then why are you still here?
i need the old lady's consent to do some treatment.
i wish i could tell you but since you're not legally related
your girlfriend had an abortion. see why i didn't tell you? i'd be insane to also tell you that she's on the pill.
if they'd known she was on it they wouldn't have given her a blood thinner after her hip surgery. the combination caused the bleeding. it's good news. it's treatable. just give her tamoxifen. which is normally a breast cancer
hmm i already did the blood tests. either she lied to you or her blood lied to us.
how ya doing?
[entering] you're on an oncology ward. everybody's got cancer. you want sympathy you wanna try the hardly anything wrong with me ward. [drops his cane] in fact why don't i take you there right now?
how sick are you? can you walk?
[reading the chart] admitted today. first day of a five-day chemo course. yeah you can walk. c'mon let's go.
[smiling] well if he didn't this would be really stupid. 'cause then he wouldn't know where his patient was. [chuckling] might think he'd been kidnapped. now the room upstairs is bigger. it's got cable. better looking sponge-bath nurses.
if you feel sick you call me directly not dr. wilson. he's getting his last set of hormone shots.
it blocks estrogen receptors.
doesn't mean i was wrong.
[shouting] anybody here a doctor? [looks around gets no answer] kidney failure spiking fever breathing difficulties. any theories?
am i in an m. night shyamalan movie?
okay i assume you know me because i once insulted you your patient or your relatives. if that's so i apologize. i was drunk that day. [back to work] patient initially presented with crush injuries.
[hopeful] telling you to cooperate fully with me?
figured that was a long shot. [shouts to the room] anybody here not get that memo?
don't you have a patient?
fungal infection would be in her eyes by now.
doesn't explain the remitting fever.
you've heard that i've got a job opening right?
ards doesn't explain anything. except the breathing. if you care about people you're not getting the job.
doesn't explain the breathing. what was the problem with ards?
and the crush syndrome?
you a fan of symmetry?
weird. 'cause your eyes are lopsided. and by eyes i mean breasts. ards and crush syndrome both reactions to severe trauma. why can't she have both?
boy you remind me of someone.
send me your r<e9>sum<e9>. i'll put it on top of the pile that i'm never gonna look at.
you don't seem like the type of person who would give up on giving up.
you love somebody. somebody who didn't drink who wanted to have babies. and wasn't miserable.
the woman you love doesn't exist. this woman is dying. she has acute respiratory distress syndrome and crush syndrome. her body's basically giving up. we can keep her on supportive dialysis and hope for the best.
never mind. she has a lump on her arm.
that would be good news for you guys. we'll know after the biopsy.
you kidnapped my guitar.
only when you give her back.
[scoffs] well it's certainly not a dude.
now who doesn't have a sense of humor? i'm monitoring the guy remotely.
the nurses know to call me.
his name's right there on the chart. now go away. i'm working.
[murmuring] bad things would happen.
[to wilson as he leaves] he's in room three-one-eight.
megan? nothing.
her? nothing.
just some amphetamines to wake her up. everything could be explained by her lying to you. the antidepressants the drinking the pill. until now. now she's allergic to something the chart says she's not allergic to. that's not her lying that's the chart lying. which doesn't make sense.
do you know a liz masters?
hmm. [holds up the file he brought in] this is her chart. [reading the chart] she's on mao inhibitors for depression. she's on the pill. she had an abortion a month ago. and she's allergic to cephalosporin.
yes.
she's the same size as megan same build same hair color.
they were both horribly injured. unrecognizably. emt teams do not second guess family members' identifications at accident scenes.
[to the patient] what's your name?
[to ben as he leaves] your girlfriend never lied to you.
i did it all by myself mommy.
go away.
[chances it again] i did it all by myself mommy.
there's a scent given off by wounded feral cats.
i got everything right. just treated the wrong
he couldn't even identify her.
so i almost need a team.
sometimes i am wrong. i have a gift for observation. for reading people in situations. but sometimes i am wrong. this will be the longest job interview of your life. i will test you in ways that you will often consider unfair demeaning and illegal. and you will often be right. look to your left. now look to your right. by the end of six weeks one of you will be gone. as will twenty-eight more of you. [beat ominously] wear a cup.
who is this man? [camera pans out to reveal the 40 potential fellows staring at house and the screen; they each have a number around their neck marathon runner style.]
c'mon take a shot. i'm not going to fire you every time you get a wrong answer.
you're fired. [23 is shocked but gets up and leaves without a word.] does this man look like he's ceding czechoslovakia to a fascist dictatorship?
i want seven alternate diagnoses when i get back. [goes to talk to cuddy who is still standing in the doorway.]
i've got a budget for three doesn't mean i can only hire three.
i cut the permanent salaries by 10 percent over 3 years that'll more than make up for the breakage on the 27 that i'm going to weed out over the next few weeks.
row d you're fired. [everyone in row d starts to leave house turns back to cuddy.] i didn't actually count all the resumes.
sure. [as people start filing out between house and cuddy] and having them sitting in my office schmoozing about their favourite algerian surfing movies that's a much better system. wait a sec. [stops number 19 a pretty brunette from leaving.] were you in row d?
my apologies my boss says i'm being arbitrary and stupid. [sticks his head back in the lecture theatre.] row d is not fired row c is fired.
see? that was not arbitrary. [house's pager goes off.] well i'd love to chat but i've been paged. [picks up his pager and looks at it.] that's interesting apparently paged myself. [leaves.]
if you have a resum<e9> there i'm not interested but i wouldn't mind hearing how you got my pager number.
does one-eyed nicky want me to run that to jimmy the nose?
[sits down.] insurance is usually cheaper than that. cash means there's something to hide.
i discovered salt and created fm radio.
well if it's fixable the air force will do it for free. if not doesn't matter.
well let's say that's true. you get a new job the hospital gets a nice wad of cash what do i get?
[cuts him off:] don't care. new patient. [turns off the projector and motions for number 6 to move it which he quickly does.] 30 year old female with synaesthesia. new rules. [pulls up the projection screen to reveal a blackboard that reads 'tesla was robbed!'] you generate a lab report <U+0096> you shred it. x-ray - you melt it. no notes no records nothing. as far as you're concerned the patient is osama bin laden and everyone not in this room is delta force. any questions?
it's a metaphor. get used to it. any more questions?
you think her name might be connected to what's wrong with her? [walks over to the side door calls out like ed mcmahon.] here's osama! [opens the door. greta walks in house gives her a chair and she sits down.] now you all have numbers so we're going to do this alphabetically. 8 15 and 5. [house starts to pace around.]
what you think i'd pull you off buddy ebsen just for a junkie?
you have got to trust someone right?
two down kitty carlisle?
why would you ask that?
that's an unusual choice.
the patient is a frequent flyer. 13 32 39 get osama an eeg mri and an angiogram. [those three and greta start to leave.] how many of you think that oswald acted alone?
oh shut up. split yourselves into 2 groups test her blood test her stool. [6 and several others leave.] who likes the designated hitter? [two female blonde identical twins <U+0096> 15a and 15b <U+0096> put their hand up.] you're wrong you're lucky you're not fired. 2 more groups lp and cultures. [twins and others leave.] who doesn't know what a designated hitter is? [26 2 and 10 put up their hand. house starts to write on a piece of paper] okay here is her address i want you to break in find out what she's hiding. [the three of them start to leave 26 takes the address on the way out 2 stops next to house]
well if we could find out what she's hiding just by asking we'd have to redefine hiding. you want to live in this country learn the language. [2 leaves.]
got a problem with the naked female form?
that's not a dolphin it's a porpoise. there is a difference you know. [goes back to looking at the screen] salary for one thing.
did you just see a blond guy with a pretentious accent?
good point. can i have my car keys back? [24 looks shocked and a little scared.] give me the car keys put the patient in a hyperbaric chamber and no more prime numbers for you. [24 gives him the keys.] thank you. [house walks back into his office.]
so what does cause synaesthesia high red blood cell count and heart attack?
and you didn't stop him. means either you thought it was a chance worth taking making you a hypocrite or you thought he'd fail making you a cut throat little pixie. what causes...
stop it! this argument is distracting every male and lesbian here. you're both right in the sense that you've convinced me that you're both wrong.
how old are you?
okay scooter. do a trans-esophageal echo and since the positive divisors of 26 are 2 and 13 have them assist. the rest of you go to the cafeteria and document 10 things that could cause infection. each. [everyone starts to leave. house takes a sip from his large soda.]
17's a stupid number. [takes a bite.] what's chase doing here?
last night outside my office.
it's more curious than actually...
not interesting. someone who looked like someone i used to know walked by my office.
the only thing i feel guilty for is this. [throws what's left of the bread into wilson's coffee.]
got that from structurally sound.
i assume you're not all walking with me to tell me that you found nothing.
okay who's next?
stop. [moves 13 out of the way with his cane and turns to look at the group.] okay. here's how we diagnose in transit. i lead you draft i move you move i stop you stop. got it?
wait a sec why did you do the test? i gave it to scooter.
it doesn't. it matters that you let her. okay. 10 24 39 run a trh stimulation test for hyperthyroidism. [walks off. the numbers follow.]
proving her first attack was caused by her thyroid. [pushes the lift button with his cane.] which is kind of the point right? [elevator dings. house walks in the numbers start to follow.] uh ah ah ah ah! [they step back.] i ride alone. [pushes the button and the lift closes.]
paging me during judge judy not the best way to win my affections.
so you called me the guy with one good leg and zero leverage. [rolls his eyes and starts to walk away.]
well luckily violence is not the last resort. extortion is. [motions to 10.] so go ahead extort her.
clever. an appeal to her deep concern for hospital property. let's see how that works. [waits nothing happens.]
you seem to be getting to her.
you think she wants to die?
i do. [house looks across and sees a blonde cameron leaving the clinic in slow motion. meanwhile greta bursts out of the chapel. 10 and 39 catch her and she struggles to break free.]
anybody think that a sedative might...
okay. [24 stabs greta in the arm and she collapses with 39 and 10 holding her up. just then cuddy walks up.]
apparently only 19. which number was it?
you know my current thoughts right? i don't have to put those on paper. [leaves.]
three issues. one. number 10 you're fired.
well it had to be someone who went to her home. number 26 is half asleep missed his afternoon nap. obviously he doesn't feel guilt. number 2 is here on a visa she can't jeopardise...
and that chick's [points to 24] been pointing at you since i walked in. [10 leaves.] issue two. what causes synaesthesia high rbc tachy-arrhythmia and panic attacks? [rubs off the blackboard.]
i also said i wanted answers.
which brings us to issue three.
to you i'm saying you're fired. to everyone else i'm...
i hate tattle tales.
now you tattled twice. issue three. [notices 6 still sitting there in shock.] c'mon let's go. [6 leaves.] issue three how do we do tests when we can't do tests?
if we chart then we won't get consent. so we can't.
her dreams depend on her not consenting. so how do we do tests when we can't do tests? [no-one answers.] you've got an hour. [leaves.]
how do you scan a liver without scanning a liver? and what's cameron doing here?
no. not interesting because not seeing. saw. my patient won't consent to mris or ultrasounds and you've dealt with more liver cancer than anyone else here.
in the lobby. i guess we could palpate the area around the liver.
she had blonde hair why would i hallucinate that?
mm-hmm because of course it's scientifically impossible for a person to go back and visit somewhere they worked.
physics joke. don't hear enough of those.
any chance you could turn this creative brilliance towards my patient's liver? [house pops a pill.]
stress... i like it. [leaves.]
we need to stress the patient's liver.
i mean make her sick in a specific way. if her liver's given to malfunctioning we make it malfunction.
i fired you.
i approve of your shamelessness. you're still fired. [6/9 starts to leave.] so how do we stress her liver?
nice. but vitamin d's metabolised by the liver and kidneys. it wouldn't tell us which one's screwed up.
i like you number 9. [6/9 smiles 24 is shocked.]
you a mormon? you're wearing a ring from brigham young. or did your folks just do the lawns?
don't care. actually i'm thanking god. you're the only non-drinker we've got. we need a control group to establish whether the liver's deterioration is within normal range. got a big drinker medium drinker now i got a no-drinker.
[stops what he is doing half smiles and leans back.] you really think the guy who created heaven and earth cares what you put in your digestive tract?
why not? her dream might come true. [18 starts to leave.] all life is sacred right?
well that fake test might really save her life. would you pull an ass out of a pit on the sabbath? [gets up and walks over to him.] would you or would you not pull an ass out of a pit on the sabbath?
good. [goes back to his seat. 18 leaves.]
okay. [pushes a stop watch.] two minutes and we go round number 5. [pours 4 more shots.] so tell me about the magic underwear.
i'm the big drinker doing my part for science. the interesting question is why your religious beliefs are suddenly less important than her dreams.
i know what i believe. i'm just not quite sure what you believe.
but your judgment was to say no. you used my judgment.
rational arguments don't usually work on religious people. otherwise there would be no religious people.
only on christmas and easter. the rest of the time it doesn't really matter.
it's not about fun! it's about the truth.
did you just see foreman?
[still trying to look past cuddy.] it's a shortcut test for hypercalcaemia. you had to have just passed him.
[still distracted.] patient might've been sneaking uppers. he was in a white coat did you hire him back?
so you put her on a treadmill.
whose idea was that?
it never is. so how old were you when your brother left home?
why aren't you answering? did your mother initiate the divorce? [takes the stethoscope off 13]
are you a wiccan?
[sits down in front of greta.] okay hold still. [while using the stethoscope to listen to her lungs he starts gently tapping her chest.]
auscultatory percussion. if you have a good ear you can... [listens.] [to 13.] you didn't have a lot of friends because you chose...
[listens again.] you can detect not only structural details but small deep masses. [flicks greta's chest a few times then takes off the stethoscope.] game's over. you either have lung cancer or tuberous sclerosis. we need to cut you open and biopsy... [greta starts shaking her head.]
i never opened for springsteen or slept with barbara feldon. you can live for years without dreams. without lungs...
okay. as long you keep saying it strongly you won't die. [goes to get up greta stops him.]
how do we force a patient into surgery? texas bag scam? saratoga wire? paris exposition trip?
[smiles.] it's a myth that fake hooters blow up at high altitude she'll be fine. just think of it as one giant rack for mankind.
would you condemn this woman to a life where people look at her face when they talk to her?
can i explain why you're here?
i scheduled a diagnostic patient for a boob job which is ridiculous. so obviously you had to confront me.
but i'm going to give you a reason.
no. not even close to a good one. but here's the drag from your point of view. my explanation will make sense. not to the board not to a judge but to you. so you'll let me do it. then you're going to have to sit next to me at the administrative hearing. don't you have better things to do? [cuddy thinks for a minute then starts to leave but hesitates and turns back.] it's in the best interests of the patient. [cuddy leaves.]
[sticks something into greta.] deflate the lung.
probably the same if not more on the left lung. okay so what's been working overtime to kill miss bin laden?
yeah but i forgot it. say the magic word and get immunity from the next challenge.
she would've had multiple seizures by now.
wouldn't explain the red blood cells. c'mon. cysts synaesthesia heart attack. you guys have gotten...
[leans over to 39 and says quietly.] do you see a blond guy who still has peach fuzz standing up there? [39 nods.] [to chase.] this is a closed procedure gallery's off limits.
not a chance. i love you guys. dig out the cysts histology to confirm von hippel-lindau. don't forget her chesticles. [looks back up but chase has gone.]
calling arizona that was a very nice touch.
not only do i not have residual feelings i didn't even have primary feelings.
you lied!
it meant nothing! i saw him because he was there. [wilson gives up.] did cameron follow her beshert to the surgery department?
foreman. is he back in neurology?
no. [leaves.]
relax. she doesn't have to tell and neither do you. turns out that nasa doctors even know where the hyphen in von hippel-lindau goes.
i'm not an idiot. those shuttles fly over new jersey. [house leaves greta starts to cry.]
so here we are. the big moment. which of you gets to live to be abused another day. and which of you goes home and rationalises being fired as character building? [pops a pill.] following numbers thanks for playing. 21 19 8 34 17 29 5 36 2... rest of you 8:00 a.m. sharp. i'll be in sometime between 10:00 and 3:00. [everyone starts to leave.] but 26 stick around awhile. [2 walks over to house.]
lots of people did nothing wrong.
other people took chances. 26. [waves him over. 2 leaves.]
yeah i know. how old are you?
you don't think it's relevant?
how about the fact that you never went to medical school? which is why you let the unlucky number do the trans echo. at least you're ethically unethical.
you had to know i'd find out sooner or later.
i can't hire you as a doctor. but you can still tell me what you think. you can also fetch me coffee pick up my dry-cleaning until i can decide whether or not to keep you.
assistant sounds marginally less demeaning.
actually it is. it's just not your dream title. [house leaves.]
you're an idiot.
the hair makes you look like a hooker. i like it. pulling pieces of windshield out of car accident victims and reattaching fingertips sliced off cutting bagels. at least chase's move is only one step down.
i don't know who's been gossiping about ethics instead of sex but i hope they've already been fired. which number was it?
number!
i didn't rat her out.
suppose i should tell her that before she keys my car.
had to stop some leaky faucets.
it was no one's business.
she's going to be the safest astronaut up there. certainly more vigilant than the guy next to her who's got no clue about the aneurysm in his head ready to pop.
you got a better reason?
would you mind holding my metaphor for a second?
new patient. thirty-seven-year-old male suffers from severe ascending muscle weakness.
to see who'd put up with it.
no i was going to fire everyone who stuck around. but since everyone stuck around....
twenty-eight percent curvature of the spine has caused reduced lung capacity and he has reduced bone mineral density.
you have just given state secrets to the enemy.
(brisk) new patient. new rules.
today you're going to split yourselves into two teams.
the first to figure out what's threatening to deprive the patient of the twenty or so miserable years he's got left with sma gets to keep their jobs. (beat) take off your numbers. you look stupid.
and i think i know who you are by now.
good question overly excited former foster kid. there's ten of you. i was thinking... six against six? no wait...
excellent suggestion fat twin. more interesting than evens versus odds less interesting than shirts against skins.
(announcing) if your sex organs dangle you're the confederates. if your sex organs are aesthetically pleasing you're the yanks.
do your sex organs dangle (beat) cutthroat bitch?
sounds logical. (beat) if you don't think about it for more than three seconds. but i just told you that if the danglers lose they're out.
so i can only assume you're hiding the real reason.
you don't think the women will be aggressive enough will be good enough at science. they'll be too emotional.
(shrugging) if the danglers are okay i'm okay.
wow! you really need a shave.
you see what i did there.
whoa.
interesting.
need a crash cart in here!
(holding up his hands) i didn't do it.
my offices are being used by my teams.
which means this is the only place where you can yell at me.
two of them. i wanted to deal with the yelling today because i noticed what you were wearing and i wouldn't have to listen all that closely.
(reasonably) without competition we'd still be single-celled organisms. (beat) can i go now?
i have seven of the finest minds on it along with three very special...
ah. i tell you; you tell them; game's over.
well then in that case... i don't know.
why would a guy voluntarily shove a metal object into an electrical socket?
i'd fire them all hire forty new fellowship applicants start the game all over again.
it'd be pretty irresponsible if i didn't wouldn't it?
(musing) if you're going to try to take yourself out (closes the knife) why choose electricity? you'd eat a bullet (flick) or jump off a building...
(refusing to be distracted) ...bury yourself alive in cuddy's cleavage.
it could have been a suicidal gesture as opposed to an actual attempt.
who puts their internal organs on a skillet just to get attention?
(to the empty air) well that would be cheating.
patchy infiltrates on the x-ray. patient improved with chest pt and oxygen consistent with aspiration.
so now we have another symptom to explain - why does his throat think his lungs are his stomach?
and why are your throats closing up?
if you think i'm going to run two differentials at this time of the morning.... grumpy you're first.
why would i call you that if you weren't?
you practice medicine overseas?
(expansively) ta-da!
david blaine hides the six of hearts in a beer bottle it's still impressive.
(challenging) you like exotic. why are you here?
parents sick?
(interrupts) this is not the job you want. this is the job in the zip code you want. you engaged?
(expansively but softer) ta-da!
you're allowed to. people usually don't.
so if it's nothing new what caused the old?
(abruptly) so he's all better woman who... (shrugs) thirteen.
(searching) that's a pretty passive approach for the daughter of an alcoholic.
then why haven't you?
six against four. one of the men is going to have to join the women's team.
on the other hand one of the men isn't an actual doctor so... i guess it's pretty fair.
men you're in the penalty box.
i'm glad you asked about that.
reason i'm penalizing you is time management.
in diagnostics you're always working against the clock. the women came up with a theory and they treated the patient. you guys just sat around in a lab hoping a series of blind tests would give you a theory. you wasted the patient's time. (takes another sip of coffee) now i'm going to waste yours.
can't let you leave if they think you're still... suicidal.
(quietly sarcastic) no that's right. you were just trying to kill the wall. (pause) i check this box and your next roommates are gonna be jesus and crazy mcloonybin. that guy never had a chance.
suddenly you're shy? (moves to almore's side) you pooped your pants in front of me. (beat) it's one of the nasty side effects of dying.
(taking a deep breath) okay. here's what happened. your oxygen-deprived brain was shutting down. a flood of endorphins and serotonin was released. that's what gave you the visions.
(flip) nope.
who are you thirteen?
the fact that you won't answer my questions tells me more about you than answers could.
do you think that non-answers tell me anything?
tell me you're hiding something.
tells me you've got something worth hiding. some turkish prison gay porn... ya killed a man just because he was asking too many questions.
no need. see you in an hour or so. got to... set some stuff up.
thank you all for coming... to tribal council. (to cole) man of your integrity i feel i can trust... big love. and i don't call you that because you are a mormon. (winks broadly as cole grimaces) so where's your team's sixth man?
you also sinned. you have no right to cast the first stone.
the rules said 'no talking'.
out loud.
key word being 'trying'. tilt table test confirmed that you guys were wrong. you're fired.
ah the prodigal son returneth. you're also fired.
good for you. it's too bad you're wrong. straightening indicates weakening not hardening. sma explains the weakening. (takes back his stick give amber back the film) strongyloides infection explains everything else. (indicates the rest of the women) you ladies have the honor to give the patient a feeding tube discharge him and show up for work tomorrow. the rest of you... you're a disappointment. you make me want to stop dangling.
i think i will miss you most of all ridiculously old fraud.
is he a vulcan? if no what makes nimoy bleed green?
because that would be stupid. and while she may be manipulative borderline evil shallow...
ten points. (puts his cane on the desk and goes to the board) 'k... let's add kidney failure to our list of symptoms.
(irritated turns to kutner) i'm going to fire the next person who asks me who i'm going to fire.
forget the game.
(losing patience) i mean forget the damn game! guy's kidneys are failing. we need to diagnose exactly...
you were diagnosing. now i am too. (beat) i thought that thirteen was right about the strongyloides. (picks up his cane) i was obviously wrong. (the moment of self-recrimination over house continues in his 'differential' voice) okay kidney failure aspiration fainting... go!
put him on iv ampigen.
do a skin biopsy. get a side of lymph node to confirm.
i could have you fired!
which proves that i can.
no. that doesn't change the fact...
because performing tests for someone who is not a doctor in this hospital...
(to brennan) and you're here to say?
cervical lymph node has black flecks.
you say nothing? i say cancer.
(suspiciously) who told you?
(nods) good.
thought we were dancing.
cervical lymph node is a garbage dump. a very small one. just one truck comes in and it only comes from one home. al gore would be appalled. the home...
on my way.
right. because i don't want to remove a little tiny piece sit in a lab and confirm what i already know while my patient drowns in his own fluid. (beat) but if you want me to i absolutely will.
it's taking college courses. (yelling) hey wilson! i'm going to cut some cripple's eye out! want to come watch?
we good to go?
hail. locusts. smiting of the firstborn. course it all depends on how evil you've been.
if they do they're wrong. this is the answer. it's the only way to help you.
get out and go where? you think you're gonna sprout wings and start flying around with the other angels? don't be an idiot. there is no 'after' there's just 'this'.
his beliefs are stupid.
(holds out his hand exasperated) hi! house.
(sarcastically) are there 72 virgins too?
he shouldn't be making a decision based on a lie. misery is better than nothing.
oh god i am tired of that argument! i don't have to go to detroit to know that it smells.
that was the whole idea.
i wanted to nearly kill myself. is he... better?
you insisted that i needed to see for myself.
(also refusing to be distracted from his original thought) what was he discharged?
not that guy. the guy in the car accident. with the knife. i... i need to talk to him.
eosinophilic pneumonia...
nothing. who's idea was that?
which one's brennan? is he the ridiculously old guy?
if it's aggressive enough it might have gotten past the steroids. start him on cyclophosphamide.
i love you.
going to see our patient.
dead is not a diagnosis.
shut up. and give me my cane.
should i fire myself too? i thought it was strongyloides then i thought it was cancer. little help here.
because if i pooped myself in front of wilson i'd never hear the end of it.
you always had that phone in your hand.
if i died you'd never get the job. i knew you wouldn't let that happen.
think this is starting to come back to me. right left then repeat.
yeah that works.
what did we miss?
so that's it? you're just gonna give up?
thank you. patient seemed... better 'til his blood turned green.
the patient didn't respond to antibiotics or steroids.
what's wrong with the dog?
(to thirteen) did you watch him take the pills? (she looks at him blankly) the ivermectin. did you watch the patient put them in his mouth and swallow them?
what kind of dog is that?
it's in the collie family right?
they share the mdr-1 gene.
what happens when you give a dog with the mdr-1 gene ivermectin?
look familiar? i think the last time you saw it it didn't have that dead dog's teethmarks on it.
(harshly) when i asked you if you watched the patient swallow the pills the right answer was 'no'. (stares implacably into her eyes) take his body down to the morgue.
feeling much better thank you.
he died because a doctor made a mistake. he was an idiot.
you think it's fair that i fired all the other members of your team when you guys actually came up with the right diagnosis?
you know he'd be alive.
his dog'd be alive.
you forced us to act on a false assumption.
everything we built from that step on. every test. every theory. every treatment.
if i was going to fire you i wouldn't be giving you the lecture. i know you're not going to let anything like this ever happen again. (pause) i'll see you tomorrow.
and i'm sorry to say... i told you so.
[from phone] gooood morning angels.
[from phone] as you will see from the file we have quite the interesting case. not often do you get a patient who sees dead people.
what the hell? i gave it to bosley a half hour ago.
less lip more whip. i only agreed to take this case because you said that this mocha frappalicious would have whip on it.
[shakes his head] can't. mercy fired him.
gimme.
disobeyed a superior officer under fire. he's lucky he wasn't executed.
girls talk.
when bosley drags his ancient ass in there...
way to get right back on that horse thirteen.
[from phone] nice try cutthroat bitch. that was the worst thirteen imitation i've ever heard.
[from phone] he's not a doctor. continue boz.
[raspy voice] oh you're breaking up. i'm going into a tunnel.
dark religious nut.
[from phone] i'm sorry. what do you people want to be called this week?
[furrows his brow] i'm never gonna remember that. take bosley and the other visible minority to the funeral home.
the rest of you young white people the world is your oyster. get an mri with contrast eeg lp and blood panel. and angels be careful.
you wanna bet?
[teasingly] one hundred dollars.
smart call. [pockets the money] guy's a wuss. he's gonna be the next one on the train.
any physical confrontation...
define verbal.
you realize what you're encouraging here.
[from phone loudly] bosley! tell whoever's talking he's an idiot.
bosley. either tell him he's an idiot or tell me why i'm wrong.
[from phone] you actually think that i'd take a patient who had a seizure in a funeral home if the er hadn't already ruled out embalming fluid?
[from phone snaps] idiot! from the old french [constipated french accent] idiote meaning effeminate mentally deficient moor.
mad cow. very cool.
tell him he's an idiot again.
which is very cool. run with it.
no because the answer is something cool i want you to do a brain biopsy on a forty-eight-year-old dead guy.
don't think of it as digging up a body. think of it as keeping another one from being buried.
we gonna have another one of those ecumenical discussions where i tell you that your beliefs are ridiculous and you totally cave?
the sabbath. the lord works for six days then tells the union he needs a rest. you know if i was all-powerful i'd take at least two days.
well then it must be the kid.
you have oatmeal on your pants.
no. i was guessing. he had oatmeal on his pants yesterday and the day before. have one of your wives look after the spawn.
interesting. you claim a lapse of judgment or you gonna admit that a lapse in judgment is a lapse in faith?
fair enough. family comes first.
thirteen and cutthroat bitch had a disagreement and the cafeteria was out of jell-o.
a little tiny piece of his brain. seemed a waste. he wasn't using it anymore.
they're looking for creutzfeldt-jakob.
does my breath smell bated to you?
i know just the guy.
six.
but don't worry the one who didn't didn't stand on principle. he just had a diaper to change. i really think there are no bad choices in this group.
you guys don't wipe your feet when you come in the house?
doctor's lounge. let's go.
well i can't ask the black guy or one of the chicks to do it. that would be insensitive.
you keep stalling you're still gonna clean up but i won't let you have the mop.
well that discussion didn't last long.
well we can go home. i mean we have no idea what's wrong with her. which means it could be completely benign. or on the off chance that it's _killing_ her we could take it again from the top.
[from phone] you sampled every bodily fluid peeked in her brain violated a cadaver's privacy dug up a body...
... but missed the fact she was still seeing things that weren't there.
be nice if one of you angels-slash-morons had a clue why.
[sarcastic] oh well as long as she never said anything. how were you to know? same thing with the spinal fluid? she tell you that was fine?
then either we're about to meet the alpha and omega or you missed something.
[impressed] you keep this up you're gonna have to start wearing sexier clothes.
we start new records. test for every hereditary disease that fits the symptoms.
start with amyloidosis keep going until you reach... zamyloidosis.
so... what's the news?
yes. why wait to finish before reporting to me? i have things to do you know.
that's not news. that's olds.
dammit. why did god design the human body this way?
in a hospital. it's enough to give you the heebie-jeebies.
well if it's stark he wouldn't be haunting a patient he'd be haunting the doctor who killed him.
[interjects loudly] probably? you think there's a possibility that the alternative is true?
then go away.
you're gonna have to run a hundred more. and by you of course i'm only referring to the people who care enough about human life to put in a full day. [to cole] you wanna carpool?
exactly like you just did. i have a theory. maybe you can help me out. black mormon means masochist. means kinky.
i'm thinking that someone got hurt making the bastard. am i right?
i wasn't referring to your kid's hypocrisy. i was referring to yours.
[thinks about it a second likes it] cool.
[to thirteen] come on.
i'm dr. house. 's your mom around?
not gonna do that. i really need to know what she has to say.
when you were young was she...?
yeah that's grandpa house. tell him to call back on a land line. terrible reception in here. how much pain was your mom in?
my patient's talking to my grandpa walt.
nope. which is what made me suspect that maybe she's not actually seeing into the afterlife.
only obsession is with the idiots in the right-here-and-now life who think there's an afterlife. [he pulls out his vicodin bottle]
nothing. just need a place to hang low for awhile. i'm pretending to be spooked.
because if my soon-to-be-brain-dead patient thinks that i believe her maybe she'll let me chat with her mother's ghost.
exactly. the ghost is a hallucination which is the result of a delusion which most likely is the result of a hereditary disease that her mother died from when the patient was four.
hmm-mm. she might not know what caused her mother's death but she will know how she acted before she died.
[snorts] who wouldn't be? [checks his watch] well that should be long enough. back in a flash.
[acting like a believer] is my grandfather still here?
but your mom's still here right?
i know she's fine now but when you were four or five she got sick.
you sure? she wasn't in any pain?
did she ever fall down?
how often?
yeah to the place where the doctor made her better. but before that what about her arms and legs? did she ever walk funny? like sort of bent over?
what about her hands? she ever have any difficulty sewing buttoning a shirt?
start her on l-dopa and bromocriptine. [bored] it's just parkinson's.
any theories?
[to thirteen] a ghost got your tongue?
vasculitis restricts blood flow to nerves messes with electrical function.
start her on the steroids.
and test for both so he'll stop whining.
[to cole] big love have i humiliated you in the last half hour?
check your email.
great. the only way he could turn any more cheeks is by pulling down his pants.
hey we didn't bet on how strong he was.
what's your agenda here? obviously don't care about the hundred.
you don't care about the team.
very much. you only care about who i hire and who i fire 'cause you miss going through my mail. you can't stop controlling me.
want your job back?
too bad. you can't have it.
[points at cameron] she'll take care of this.
you can take it out of the $100 you're gonna owe me.
[over intercom] you guys gonna shoot the breeze or you gonna do something about all that bleeding?
that is just great.
both of you. together. fighting. passionate to prove the other one wrong. couldn't care less about the patient but it all works out the same.
not as productively. continue.
do a visceral angiogram.
if i wanted to embarrass you i'd... have you mop up the doctor's lounge.
what'd the angio say?
you couldn't let her get to second base just to get the test done?
well it's definitely not vascular.
[leans back in his chair] question is what would joseph smith do?
casting out the demons?
you believe that the book has all the answers.
but the book is inconsistent with science. you know how many epileptics were tortured because they were possessed? how many teenage witches were stoned to death 'cause they took mushrooms?
either got to prescribe an exorcism or admit to me that smith was a horny fraud.
you couldn't have spoken up ten seconds ago? you coulda saved me a hundred bucks.
is it six o'clock?
you okay with an answer based on evolution?
hypocrite.
as you know there are seven of you and... [counts the flowers and dumps a few of them] only six roses.
actually i'm surprised there are seven of you. [to cole] you punch your boss and stick around?
don't overdo it. [to the rest] now i would love to keep all of you. but not enough to do anything about it. so according to my arbitrary schedule one of you has to go.
i'm sure she did it. that's why she's getting the flower. it was beautiful.
she just overreached. she got into your head.
she owned you. planting the idea was good. letting it fester was good. leaving the collar was stupid. well known fact ghosts don't leave things lying around.
oh my goodness. i'd totally forgotten about you two. well played.
sorry henry.
we had some giggles.
funny i was gonna say that.
if you want to hang out...
rest of you eight o'clock tomorrow.
[getting the money] i bet you say that to all the guys.
take your blood money.
who are you gonna protect next?
today we are hunting for the cat burglar of diseases. causes a healthy man's lungs to fail leaves no fingerprints.
no hyperinflation on the x-ray.
no hives. no erythema on the skin. [cuddy and foreman walk in.]
embolisms don't magically dissolve. [to foreman.] what are you doing here?
good idea. you've been tremendously helpful you can leave.
well i fired him. to infinity.
she did i said no.
foreman goes!
oh uh just in case i need them where exactly will dr. foreman be keeping my balls? [foreman rolls his eyes and looks at cuddy who smiles and leaves.] if you want to keep your jobs that never happened. the only way to get the cat burglar is to catch him in the act. give the patient a methacholine challenge see if it sets off laryngospasm.
well only until you can figure out why. after that it'd be irresponsible. [the numbers leave foreman stays.] you and i should talk.
yes she did! she had to establish her dominance in front of them limit my power.
well that's not the never-say-never dr. foreman i know. there's lots we can do.
i can make you miserable.
until you quit again. so why don't we just skip the middleman?
my god not everything's about you and your little job and your little world. this is about restoring order in the universe.
you're going to be miserable.
carry on he's the boss. [sits down between 13 and kutner.]
weird though... that he's the boss. didn't he quit recently? was it a money issue?
no that wasn't it it was something else... was it bling account? med plan didn't cover tattoo removal?
oh! i remember. you don't want to turn into me. right? you didn't want to become evil.
absolutely. i'm just flattered. in a few short weeks seems like i've just turned towards the light. i mean... either that or you've sold your soul.
get a raise? 'cause then you're a whore. or didn't you? 'cause then you're a stupid whore. [house's pager goes off.] patient just crashed. [everyone just sits there.] can they go boss? [foreman nods. they run off.]
but?
well then i'll see you at the reunion. [stands up to leave.]
i decided you're right. you're obviously in an impossible position. there's no point in me humiliating you.
so i'm going to humiliate cuddy until she fires you.
well. [cole runs past.] if the name was attila von weinerschnitzel i'd say you might be on to something.
[studies the board.] no.
munchausen's patients create symptoms not names.
he's in a lab coat. munchausen's pretend to be patients not doctors. he's got mirror syndrome.
do you know another mirror syndrome? brain's got no idea who he is where he is or what he is. but it fills the holes with whatever dirt's lying around. he reads a name tag he's got a name. sees a doctor he's got a job. sees symptoms he's got a problem.
well if it's simple then we discharge the nut bar. but if it's complicated then the nut bar has got brain damage.
no we let him jerk you around. there's a faster way.
mind if we play through?
what's going on here martin?
excellent question. who are you martin? [patient opens his mouth to talk but says nothing.] he just likes to watch do stuff.
of course you are. [to the patient.] it's lecture time.
was that it? i think you can go a lot deeper here. i mean why am i so obsessed by all of this?
good idea. i'll have him sort my mail.
i think we just found out.
[looks up at foreman in the observation room as the patient grabs a scalpel.] told you i didn't need you.
[cuts the patient's hand with a scalpel]
your blood's turned to sludge. if we don't heat you up you're going to die. [looks up at foreman.] can't fake that!
mirror syndrome patients have no agenda no axe to grind. they can read you because they have to. moods attitudes everything. they're like mind readers. except they can read your mind.
unfortunately we have to cure him. his hand wasn't black when he came in the operating room was sterile the only thing different was the temperature. cold agglutinins means...
you'd better find it fast. this guy feels another cool breeze his blood turns to slop and he drops. [walks into the cafeteria.] i need three ways to pinpoint infection.
blood's clumpy. nothing you can do with it.
good what else?
good. [house stands on a chair.] uh ladies and gentlemen i have a regrettable announcement. kitchen has just learned that our annual shipment of mayonnaise was improperly stored so anybody who ate... well the food should head across the lobby to the clinic right away. ask for dr. cuddy. [everyone starts to leave.]
it's her building her doctors. still need one more.
mail order. i've seen the diplomas. two n's in university. [everyone continues to leave.] big love was right. history's the key.
the key is the key. he had car keys in his pocket when he was admitted. [to amber.] keep him in the isolation room so he doesn't pick up extreme bitch syndrome from one of the nurses. [to 13.] run the ultrasound [to taub.] and the blood cultures.
no one's keeping score... you're losing. [to cole.] search the street where he was mugged find the car and the registration.
because if you deal with the patient he's going to wind up singing osmond songs and proposing to five nurses at once.
ooh. we have a love connection. [house leaves.]
solid.
yes i needed a smug oncologist...
i hate you. tell me why.
any country with that low an age of consent and that high a rate of suicide isn't thinking straight.
it was a surgery. you were the surgeon. in that setting...
go ahead ask.
i want all my personal private doctors back right now. except for foreman.
lesion on the liver. possibility... why are you doing a pelvic for food poisoning?
lesion on the liver ideas?
if he bleeds out we'll know what he had.
two diagnoses out of three he lives. we do nothing three out of three he dies. [to brennan.] go stick his liver.
you need him to draft your letter of resignation?
what? no that would be childish. this is what i'm doing to get back at cuddy. [turns around to the clinic full of people.] who here doesn't have any health insurance? [a bunch of people stick up their hand.] michael moore was right. mri's pet scans neuro-psych tests private rooms for all these patients. fight the power!
this makes no sense.
i'm not talking about the infection. i'm talking about you letting tonya harding administer the treatment.
why?
and you realised i'm right just now?
the patient's nuts.
the patient is nuts.
you're nuts. you're going to be miserable at home at work somewhere. the goal in life is not to eliminate misery it's to keep misery to the minimum.
you said you came back to get married. what does your fianc<e9>e do?
uh-huh well i'm sure thailand will have courts any day now. someone's going to be miserable sometime. accept it. it's how i stay so happy.
you're good. don't screw it up just because you're miserable.
rash worse equals cold agglutinins worse. means what was in his liver wasn't fungus.
which you [points at brennan] mistook for a cool fungus that you saw after the tsunami.
you saw what you wanted to see not what was there. wait a second. didn't you quit?
of course you are. because you're the exact right amount of miserable.
or... we can get an accurate history. [dials a number on his phone.]
well that'll be a good solace to the widow x.
that's why i sent two of you. one of you breaks in the other posts bail.
not a problem. you know how to kill dogs right?
or... we get an accurate history.
you guys ever heard any of my metaphors yet? come on. [sits down on the edge of the desk.] sit on grandpa's lap as i tell you how infections are criminals the immune system's the police... seriously grumpy get up here. [pats the desk beside him.] it'll make us both happy. [brennan looks unsure of whether to go or not but stays put.] anyway cops don't just let crooks run free. they keep fingerprints mug shots. the immune system does the same thing only it calls them antibodies. we find out what diseases he's had in his life good chance that'll tell us where he's been in his life. alice. [points to kutner.] your turn through the looking glass. draw blood and csf.
what do you have?
probably lived in the ohio river valley.
weak means older. means he moved to ohio from the san joaquin valley.
central america.
yes! you're right buzz kill. this tells us next to nothing. but since that's on the something side of nothing thought we'd go with it.
so we take his body out of the picture. let's hit it from the inside. lipopolysaccharide.
or make him just toasty enough to keep his blood flowing free. like my bowels. you smell that? not going to get sweeter.
but you are. you used to like this stuff. you left here because you didn't like what you were turning into. you like who you are now? you like being cuddy's errand boy? [flushes as foreman leaves.] that was just a courtesy flush. i'm not actually done.
unless you're willing to don a white t-shirt and hop into the hot tub with him i need another way to keep him warm or he dies.
i could cure him.
are you going to fire me?
wait a second. what the hell was that? you were won over by my soaring rhetoric? i basically just threatened to hold my breath... you never intended to stop me. you just pretended to stop me so you could pretend to fail to stop me so you could stroke my ego. uh-uh. war doesn't end till foreman's gone.
and... i know when my vicodin isn't vicodin. do you know when your birth control pills aren't birth control pills? [leaves cuddy looking worried.]
so now you've electrocuted yourself and set a patient on fire. i like the dedication.
yeah it was. the insult comes now. you're insane! you either have an aversion to towels or you want pain. i think both. i'm thinking it goes back to high school gym...
sure why not?
do them again. quadruple run time. [everyone starts to get up.]
no! that's a terrible idea. won't tell us anything. biopsy his heart. come on i'll join you.
i got you a job. mount zion hospital in boston.
gilchrist said he'd take you anyway.
oh god. does everything have to be about you? it's simple math. i'm not going to back down. you're not going to back down. cuddy's not going to back down. no one's going to be happy here. and cuddy's going to end up pregnant. [elevator dings.]
doesn't matter.
starts monday. i could help you pack.
what? why not? you're miserable.
well you're gonna be. [foreman smiles.] are you smiling?
do your own stupid biopsy.
[looks inside the box.] no need for the heart biopsy. i now know exactly who he is and what he has. you saved his life.
no you idiot. it's vapour rub and lunch receipts.
it's 8:00 at night. the biopsy will be faster. not fast enough to save him but that's hardly the point. [13 and cole start to leave.] thirteen. [they both turn around.] [to cole.] is your name thirteen? [cole leaves.] why did you volunteer to go street walking?
a black mormon could help that way. there's no reason for you to want to be there. which means there's a reason you didn't want to be here. didn't want to look in the mirror?
hi. cuddy called. she needs you to iron her shirts. we'll take over. [pushes 13 forward.] go ahead. [motions for foreman to leave. he does so. 13 moves close to the patient while still putting her gloves on.] talk to him.
come on. make him feel comfortable.
i'm not here deal with her. [13 smiles.]
i'm not the alpha here. she is. she's my boss.
increase the drip. if... you think that's the right thing to do.
hey. get in there see how he's doing.
well apparently it's impossible to see anything else while i'm in there. i'm a blinding white hot light of power.
no i'm not interested in how he's doing. i'm interested in how she's doing. so get in there and tell me how he's doing.
you're a powerful dominating man but who knows?
yes you're going to get fired right now unless you get in there... [13 walks out.]
and how is he?
i know. but how is he? bitter? sexually frustrated?
fine. soak him again.
no you love hot tubs. find the rest of the gang tell them to meet me at the lecture hall.
what did you say?
he likes. who else was in there?
you didn't think to mention that?
it's not. what it is is the water hit him and he had a thought. not about you but about him. we need to splash him some more.
you look familiar.
my name's robert elliot. i'm from hamilton ohio.
stuff.
what brings you to new jersey? is it work or vacation?
what type of work?
i eat out a lot. in a lot of restaurants. [opens the box starts pulling out receipts.] knotty pine. ritchies.
they're good huh?
for what?
you on the road a lot?
[pulls out the vapour rub.] you ever use this stuff? i use it all the time. [smells it.]
yeah. i just said that. you know the cool thing about this stuff is... you can do a lot with it. soften your skin treat scrapes. naughty stuff. [house holds it out for the patient. the patient takes it and rubs some under his nose then breathes in deeply.] why did you do that?
you're saying you like the smell?
something else does smell like dung?
you guys ready? now is the time you stare at me in slack-jawed amazement. he sells farm equipment. [they look surprised.] see? pig lagoons pig farms. [takes off the jacket.] and as every child knows where you have pigs you have pig poo. [roughs up his hair.] but as very few children know where you have pig poo you have eperythrozoon infection.
this time tomorrow he'll be back to his old self. whoever that might be.
hi i'm the guy who saved your life.
she doesn't fire me she never will fire me she needs me.
she's hot for me. always...
you lose.
you all suck. the two of you [points to cole and 13] took 14 hours to find a car. you [kutner.] forgot to mention that the guy with no memory had memories. you [brennan.] keep on thinking that insane guys have hidden wisdom. you're going to wind up shooting people on the subway. [looks at the other two.] something.
it's a tie.
all of you.
none of you are fired. [the numbers breathe a big sigh of relief. everyone standing at the back leaves disappointed except chase who smiles.]
sure.
they're good doctors.
he's a good doctor.
50%... how bad you want to keep your job?
hey.. you actually do want to stay don't you?
every one of those idiots got some insight about themselves from the pig salesman. not one of them did anything about it. people don't learn they don't change but you did. you're a freak! [foreman laughs.]
[uninterested] ah sixty-eight's a good run. that'll leave something in the lockbox for the rest of us. next!
technically it's wilson's lunch.
[cuts her off] too much crying.
[cuts him off] too much drama.
tell me about speed racer.
[interrupts] what kind of race car?
[interested] continue.
nothing says thanks for saving my life like a test drive in a car that accelerates faster than a space shuttle.
kinda hard to get heat-struck in four-and-a-half seconds.
no lazy ass called in sick again. we can give him a message.
so... either it's heatstroke in which case we take the afternoon off or it's one of the diagnoses that you guys are gonna have for me in... two minutes. [to foreman] you're in charge.
[yeah right] you're with the cia?
sure. you wanna close the door?
well i assume you're gonna drop trou at some point during the dance. i don't see why i should share.
if i have to walk somewhere there better be at least five girls involved. and they better be working their way through college.
[to the fellows] okay what do you got?
or cushing's or calcium deficiency.
we use the term life partner.
get a fresh history neurological exam and an mri of her head. [following smith out] fifteen minutes for the lap dance a half hour to scrub the guilt off my soul. [checks his watch] see you in forty-five.
yeah we need to hurry.
little advice i mean obviously the village people played out the whole cop thing. but come on cia? do you seriously expect anyone to believe that?
i lied.
i know... just wanted to see if you could tell that i was lying. useful information.
[into phone] yeah?
i'm on a top-secret mission for the cia.
[from phone] areflexia could mean miller-fisher.
[into phone] poker's illegal. cia would never allow illegal activity...
[re: the hospital] looks a lot better on '24'.
[to smith] i take that back.
there's nothing that gives me more pleasure than helping out a colleague.
curtis on immunology sidney curtis?
nope! but it is keeping my piano level.
so... where is the poor sick fella?
fyi my malpractice insurance doesn't cover alien autopsies.
yeah did oswald really have sex with marilyn monroe?
[to curtis] very professional.
cool.
ho-o-old on a second. if the squirrel liberation army's involved i'm outta here. those little rodents are...
horse chestnuts may look like chestnuts but they taste like a horse's lower-than-chestnuts. which makes the theory that he accidentally ate a couple of hundred slightly less persuasive.
and seeing as how he was prowling the back alleys of... [guessing] tehran?
unless we know the local environmental factors poisonous flora...
[sits miffed] well then why are we here? you might as well just google poison.
who you gonna kill in bolivia? my old housekeeper?
i'm sorry. who are you gonna marginalize? if it is my housekeeper she has it coming. cleaning the windows means cleaning both sides. [loudly to curtis] am i right or am i right?
not anymore. i know what's poisoning him. and who - john.
it's just pancreatitis.
spies can't get fungal infections?
spies can't get sunburns? bolivia doesn't have sun?
we should celebrate. with a beer. or eight.
oh... methinks he doth protest too much.
guilt over killing a man. make anyone hit the sauce.
right. you just lie to your friends and family establish false identities trick people into betraying their country. he'd never cover up his drinking. he's too honest.
hey. something i've always wanted to know. that poison lipstick that ginger used to kiss gilligan. why didn't that kill her?
tummy-ache's gone as well.
[quietly to terzi] wanna ditch dr. killjoy and... hop in the company jet? little trip down mexico way. and i'm not talking about the country or the plane.
well if it didn't the human race would have died out long ago.
i'm appropriately cheery for someone who's being proved right.
what's to vomit? [holding up a chicken leg] i'm eating his lunch. withholding nutrients is the treatment for pancreatitis. that and the antibiotics you put him on. i did unhook your iodine though. didn't seem to fit with the whole i'm-just-jerking-you-guys-around gestalt.
well let's ask john if he'd rather be sick honestly or cured dishonestly.
[sheepishly] any chance he's just... overwhelmed with gratitude?
okay relax. i'll take your book out from under my piano.
radiation sickness kills specific cells at specific times. his hair should be coming out in clumps before he's writhing in pain. since it's not i know who's trying to kill him. [looks upwards] god. it's blood cancer. waldenstrom's.
[interrupts] if you had any real evidence of foul play you'd be torturing bolivians instead of putting me into a state of anticipatory sexual arousal.
bad idea. unless you're the one who's trying to poison him.
you make a good point. i've been wrong every time and she still won't listen to you. so either she [chuckling] really likes me or she really hates you. and i got a ride in the jet.
now we got the medical stuff out of the way. why don't we meet back at your place for some enhanced interrogation techniques?
my safe word is help please please stop. it's two pleases. anything less than that you keep going.
oh i'm sorry i thought... you were still euphemizing. my valet knows a little oncology.
[into phone] oh i can never grow bored of ignoring you. what's the latest protocol on waldenstrom's?
[into phone] cia headquarters. how much fludarabine...?
[into phone] they flew me in to help deal with a sick employee. how much...?
[into phone] okay call the langley switchboard ask for extension... [looks to terzi]
[into phone] three five seven eight.
you know i happen to have a position available on my penis.
wait a second i think i screwed up that joke.
i'd settle for that.
pays better. and we've only had one assassination attempt.
[into phone] inspector gadget.
[into phone] you've gotta get down here. they've got a satellite aimed directly into cuddy's vagina. i told them the chances of invasion are slim to none but... [trails off] waldenstrom's.
[to terzi] twenty-five milligrams?
[into phone] relax. i'm sure they already know that you brought heroin back from afghanistan.
how're you feeling?
yeah cancer can be that way.
[quietly] no it's too quick.
[somberly] it means you don't have cancer. someone actually did try to kill you.
there's no need to yell.
he's getting the radiation treatment.
i didn't yell at you when i thought you were wrong.
cordyceps sinensis.
it's uh it's an herbal treatment derived from a parasitic fungus comes from caterpillars. along with dimercaprol chelation it's been shown to mitigate bone marrow damage from radiation poisoning. [beat] in monkeys.
it's a chinese herb which has been effective in...
[beat] probably.
radiation sickness has a latency period. you'll get better before you get worse.
only if it's interesting.
not interesting.
okay we have half a good story there.
best way to rid yourself of that guilt is to confess your sins.
what do you mean forty days?
carnival in bolivia's only eight days. [small beat] you have any idea what a chestnut looks like?
you idiot.
whoever knew that john was stationed in brazil not bolivia.
[turning to smith] well then i guess i'm talking to you idiot.
but not the same language. in bolivia chestnuts are chestnuts. brazil on the other hand it's castanhas-do-par<e1> literally chestnuts from par<e1>. because it would be stupid for people from brazil to call them brazil nuts!
no he ate a lot of brazil nuts. which is a big deal because they contain selenium.
which in high doses causes fatigue vomiting skin irritation discharge from the fingernail beds and hair loss. any of that sounding familiar?
we've already started. treatment's chelation same as for radiation sickness. the only difference is it works a lot better on nut poisoning.
there's a lot you can learn in my fellowship. a few new procedures i could teach you. 'course we'd need a nurse to prep.
actually i was just trying to make another euphemism for sex.
i was right.
morning!
overslept.
yeah. i cured depression with tonic water once. actually i think there was some gin in it too.
nah that's a stretch. if she had porphyria you would have seen purple urine.
they believe it. her symptoms fit perfectly. and the alternative is unbelievably convoluted. some doctor would have to poison her with thallium so it looks like polio then fake a lab test then give her vitamin c and stop the poison so she magically gets better. [as if just realizing] actually... [to brennan] it is kinda doable right?
so what do you think? should we test her for thallium before you contact stockholm?
the really shocking thing is that foreman was right about the heatstroke.
yeah. in some bush clinic. you needed polio in a place with a proper lab. the only problem is that places with proper labs don't have polio.
[nods sighs] which is why i'm not gonna fire you.
you're gonna quit.
go on get outta here.
absolutely. i'm gonna let him get as far away as possible before you call the cops. guy's a nut job. [to the fellows] who the hell did i leave in charge?
there was a reason for that. next time listen to him.
okay. by the way one of my employees...
[seriously] i was in the hamptons. i was helping some rich hedge-fund jerk treat his son's sniffles. fascinating as that sounds.
thank you.
i know how to kill a man with my thumb.
hi.
yeah? well i uh i live a couple miles from here.
you said you were happy at the company.
good.
(still staring intently) i mean... go on.
yeah we know. we're doctors.
(incredulously) that's yourself? (grimaces) fascinating case. (rises) i will see you again after i have saved his life. (takes the file from cuddy) have a warm bath waiting.
you following me?
if i do that won't i bump into you?
(summoning patience) you know it's a joke. (falsely sincere) see i became a doctor because of the movie 'patch adams'.(considers) uh listen do you want to get ahead of me maybe back up i don't know low down makes me look more powerful...
(oozing faux charm) yeah. also my eyes look better in...
...rooms with summer colors.
(unrepentant) would it be better if i checked out your wardrobe and questioned your ass?
there is no little part of you.
you using force on me is... intriguing. (glances outside her office) on the other hand cameras make people act. sometimes like human beings sometimes just weird sometimes they wear open-tipped bras.
less obvious point is that i need my team (glances again at the crew)to be unafraid of the metaphorical fart.
sorry about that. private. (glares back at cuddy) she waxes her mustache once a month... sometimes gets some pretty gnarly ingrown hairs.
where's foreman?
good. come on let's go for a walk.
(with faux drama) walks look good on camera. they give the illusion of the story moving forward.
new patient.
sixteen-year-old boy with second-degree...
...infranodal heart block post-arrest.
certainly not light-headedness.
not in front of the company.
i'm making a music video. come on move faster more energy.
because... he would object to what i'm about to do.
(to the tech) hey buddy! [the patient raises his head curiously.] you stay in there. (points at the patient)we'll be out here making sure he doesn't move again. (to the universe) gah! finally hear myself think. our patient has...
because she has way more diagnostic experience than the other swimsuit models i was considering. (references the file) our patient has a frontonasal encephalocele with a midline cleft. (raises a picture) ew. don't stare directly at it. (hands it to thirteen) so what caused big head's heart to stop?
wrong. sixteen years they've been testing that insane noggin to death.
that sixteen years of testing didn't show?
hey hey! you want fair you picked the wrong job. the wrong profession. (pauses to think) the wrong species. forget the deformity. treat the patient like he's any other really really ugly kid.
nice. you're right about the habit you're wrong about the substance. (indicates the pic) blackened skin under the nose equals frostbite from huffing freon. freon's toxic damages the heart.
do a nuclear study. if i'm right you'll see scarring of the heart.
yes. this is a real offer.
i think she might be an idiot.
but she can't be an idiot. she's in the cia for god's sake.
she had good ideas in langley.
she was able to identify that they were good ideas.
she's new. she's nervous.
she said one dumb thing in the differential.
they all say dumb things in differentials.
i can't! i just hired her. she left a career.
well then give me something better. what's causing heart block?
if it was toxoplasmosis we'd've seen enlarged lymphs. and because you're not pretty enough to be an idiot you must know that already. which means you just said it because you want to do an lp for intracranial pressure.
wait. i'm not done. you thought i wouldn't catch on which means either you think i'm an idiot which is flattering doing my hair differently or ...
(to kutner) how could you possibly think that i was done? i prefaced that with an 'either'. it needs an 'or'. (to taub) or you are an idiot. which is possible. i'm not great at judging men's looks.
who cares if you're dead? it's how you look. well since you've given me nothing better we're back to drugs.
decreased uptake on the membranous septum.
but nothing's nothing. do an ep study.
too bad you guys are going for a theatrical release. vomiting blood would have made a great act-out. likely causes?
no pallor. no melena. (scornfully) why are you wearing a tie?
nice lipstick.
bad idea.
the hemorrhage came after the block.
anybody here more interested in the medicine and a little less interested in the paparazzi?
good.
yeah. but other than that. real good.
i just said it wasn't a nasal tumor.
finally! someone who is not just a pretty face. you and taub run the 'scope find the tumor.
liver is the one organ you can't ascribe to intracranial pressure.
hey hey hey hey! [house puts his face into the shot. very annoyed.] you have an all-access pass to the case not my fave five. so go.
come on come on - let's go!
i think i'm going blind.
she said something idiotic again and i didn't even notice it. it took foreman to point out that it was idiotic. she's making me an idiot.
no i think it's something systemic.
she killed a patient.
the bitch is a bitch.
the bitch? she's a bitch.
nope elephant boy just vomiting up blood again.
yeah.
nope. where are the nosebleeds? where's the labored bleeding? you were right about me being wrong. you're wrong about you being right. (to the room) i need new ideas. anybody.
does it bother you...
...that this kid's gonna die because you won't put down that camera?
at all? you know?
(sarcastically patient) no. now they're too worried about looking bad.
(out of the corner of his mouth) foreman? does that make sense?
hey. say what she just said.
go look for signs of retinal degeneration.
take him with you so he can see the degeneration too.
absolutely.
absolutely not.
swelling means there's increased pressure. you get a gold star of david for proving that...
...yes this kid has a big head and big heads cause pressure. doesn't explain the liver.
jra explains all of it including the liver. one theory's better than two.
treat with steroids.
you really want to lose this argument in front of the camera?
i am sure. (turns) it's jra.
and why would he even doubt that unless a former fellow of mine was chirping in his ear.
why did you take this job?
you had a perfectly good plastic surgery practice... lots of money.
the temptation to come screw with me just too much for you? there's got to be a better reason.
oh and i think i mentioned this earlier - you're fired.
to do what i always do in these situations.
treat my patient behind his back.
just a warning. if we have to start getting consent every time we do a procedure soon they'll be asking for informed consent.
uh... gosh. uh... there's so many things.
ah... is dr. taub available? because he was very highly recommended....
do you know why he left?
oh my goodness! is he okay?
'cause... because my friend had his ears done by dr. taub. should he worry that they may... pop back?
you know that toe... next to the big toe? mine's bigger than my big toe. is there any way to shorten it? or make my big toe bigger? like a toe-gmentation? (inquiring) did he lie cheat or steal?
what gave me away? was it my obviously perfect feet?
hi!
let's go!
skipping three scenes. ct's back. (indicates taub) he's gonna say that there's evidence of an anomaly i'm gonna say he's wrong he's gonna go back to the father and we'll all end up here.
or it's a sign of increased pressure from jra.
dr. taub would rather distract you from the truth...
... with sparkly things like four-carat diamonds.
your partner said...
...that you left for personal reasons. but your wife said you lost a patient.
see that confused me.
why would you give her a diamond if you screwed somebody else over? if you screwed her over i mean that could... i....
just asked questions.
if you could be a bit more descriptive i'd be happier.
wow! you are ugly.
i know. that's why you're ugly.
but you're a lucky boy. anywhere else in the animal kingdom your parents would have eaten you at birth.
your son needs steroids.
dr. cuddy agrees.
he's not a real doctor. he's a plastic surgeon. all he cares is that your son looks good in his coffin.
you shouldn't care if i care.
because... i don't think the surgery's important. you're putting your trust in someone who does think the surgery's important. you're willing to take chances to risk your son's life for something he doesn't need?
but not on film. all their camera equipment's in here.
blue the janitor.
that's his name.
owe him an apology.
just watch twenty minutes of this stuff tell me if i'm out of my mind.
(onscreen) foreman does that make sense?
what did you miss? she screwed up i didn't...
(onscreen) good.
what am i going to do?
i'm gonna to keep her around because she makes me an idiot?
you think he's gay?
(onscreen) i just said it's not a nasal tumor...
i can't believe i'm that guy.
i'm not every guy.
i'm not all guys.
cameron was smart.
did you just insult me in pig latin?
you're right. i didn't see that before. [house looks down at taub.] come on. let's go!
hey.
i know you think you're feeling better... on account of feeling better but this trusted family doctor thinks that he's found a masked lesion so if you could lie back down and struggle to breathe....
(to taub) look at that.
his little finger. it's twitching.
just give it a second.
there.
he's not better.
my diagnosis. i don't know what he has.
cancel the surgery.
new symptom. involuntary muscle movement.
the body doing something it's not supposed to do is the definition of a symptom.
or he's not.
or the steroids have just tempered his condition.
you get a haircut and still got bad hair.
on the other hand if he has lyme disease there would be other subtle clues like a huge target-shaped rash. but thanks for playing.
taub thinks that acetaminophen does.
if i'm right his heart will stop. (beat) kutner keep the paddles on stand-by.
another chance to blow someone up.
absolutely.
he's convinced he's sure. whereas i care about your son and have therefore brought a professional defibrillist.
what you do mean 'thank god'?
(over his shoulder) god's the guy who gave it to him.
i have a new theory. her bad ideas don't indicate a lack of intelligence they indicate an open mind the willingness not to be trapped by conventional....
tell me something i don't know.
you do realize that 'tell me something i don't know' is just an expression.
you think that just because she's as beautiful ... ergo...
...you think that because she hasn't had a decent idea....
yes. it was jra. i'm very proud.
would you just hold up some fingers so i can see if i'm literally blind? we ruled out lyme disease hours ago.
i am so ashamed. (to wilson) she really that good looking?
how many lives have been lost because of pretty girls?
she's getting uglier by the second.
we can try and pretend we're above it. we can try and intellectualize it away but ultimately shiny pretty perky things are good and ugly misshapen teenaged boys are repulsive.
oh. well then i guess my answer wasn't very helpful was it?
mini-stud. stand up.
i spoke to your other partner.
no i stayed away. did it all over the phone. i asked for a reference said you were applying for a plastic surgery job.
yeah. (beat) he went nuts. apparently you signed a non-compete. now why would you agree to that?
you sign a contract because someone's making you someone's getting something from you. (coldly) what did they give you in return?
so you gave up your chosen career just so they'd be quiet.
you risked this job. with nothing to fall back on.
sit back down.
(reprovingly) ask the mormon. (explaining) i'm keeping him because he's interesting. (briskly) dr. terzi would you please stand up?
nice. [house frankly admires her.]i have treated you unfairly. [house walks over to her.] prejudged you. and for me to be a better person i have to rectify that situation. (bluntly) you're fired.
you... wanna grab some dinner?
maybe a movie? seriously.
(onscreen) i care about your son.
(onscreen) see i became a doctor because of the movie 'patch adams'.
the horror.
not so much sent... as stolen.
(onscreen) ...you're putting your trust in somebody who does think the surgery's important.
god!
i was saying that was a stupid thing to do.
oh stop it! suddenly i don't feel i can trust michael moore movies.
i owe it to the world to make sure this evil never sees the light of day.
aww. [gets off the scooter.] five eager doctors and no sick people. let us try and fill our spare time with a new challenge. the winner gets immunity...
the girl's fine. he didn't really cut her in half.
a drowning man's heart stopped that is a mystery. along with immunity the winner gets to nominate two...
you have to leave work at 6:00 pm but you make time for man dates?
no i'm just hurt. when i asked you to come see mamma mia...
he's lying.
about everything. he's a magician that's what they do. he screwed up the trick he started drowning and he got a cardiac arrest.
the winner nominates two of your competitors. i will fire one of them.
fine. go run your tests. if you're wrong you're fired.
if i say no are you going to let your patient die?
we can all applaud the doctor who's willing to break all the rules. but the real hero is the unsung doctor toiling in anonymity because he broke the rules without getting caught. i need to know you have these skills. i need you... to bring me the thong of cuddy. [foreman looks up from his paper the numbers all give house a weird look.] not kidding. [they still all just sit there.] thong. cuddy. go. [they get up and slowly start to leave stopping before they pass foreman.]
these are not cuddy's panties.
no. also she's wearing a red bra today. [everyone looks at him.] like i'm the only one who noticed. means the downstairs will match.
[to amber.] hike up your skirt.
hike it down then. you're wearing a black bra. let's see the underwear.
you two cut a deal.
foreman. she's not wearing any underwear. you used to be more fun.
let me see the mri film.
define soon.
you guys ever wonder how he was going to get out of that water tank? you. [points to kutner.] come. [they leave.]
ladies and gentlemen i have nothing in my hands nothing up my sleeve. i do have something in my pants but it's not going to help with this particular trick. watch closely. [sticks his hands into finn. looks at the surgeon.] how you been?
[nods and continues feeling around inside finn. pulls out a small key.] ta-da. [shows it to kutner.] now you... disappear. [kutner leaves.]
look familiar? the mri's magnet ripped this through your intestine into your spleen.
he's no longer on your case because there's nothing wrong with you.
everything that's happened can be explained by you being forgetful and incompetent. you screwed up you passed out...
your life doesn't hang in the balance. you know your life doesn't hang in the balance. your reputation might hang...
i outgrew it. you?
too much trouble. can i just pick my nose?
[takes a card.] if i tell you how it's done will you go home? [looks at his card 6 of spades. puts it back in the deck.] so you going to make it magically appear in my wallet? [finn throws the cards at the glass wall. the jack of hearts sticks there.] you are a hack. [house pulls the jack off the window to reveal the 6 of spades on the other side of the glass. house is surprised he looks at finn then back at the card and rubs the window just to make sure it is on the other side.]
a nosebleed that major means he's actually sick. means the cardiac arrest was a symptom. [looks at kutner.] stop gloating.
then what's that smirk?
i declare it officially on hold.
[to cole.] pull down your pants.
no i want to give you a reward. yes i think you're lying. cardiac arrest plus nose bleed go.
you [taub] take the gloater to the patient's drug den. make sure you pat down his pockets before you leave. you [amber] and big love biopsy a blood vessel from around the heart test for polyarteritis nodosa. you... [13] in my office.
i know. hypothetical. a young woman does something clumsy in public and instead of laughing it off she gets irrationally upset. explain.
but this girl's not insecure. seems more like she's afraid.
i think you're hiding a medical condition.
doctors often try to ignore their symptoms because they think they can't get sick. if you've got something going on i need you to take care of it.
it's not compassion. it's self interest i want my team healthy.
okay.
how'd you do the trick?
what do you mean the actual magic? think you're actually sawing women in half?
[connects the iv up.] magic is cool. actual magic is oxymoronic. might not even be oxy.
you got a nurse to plant the card.
you got a buddy to plant the card.
[grabs some scissors and cuts the iv line finn is shocked.] the fun... [house opens his hand to reveal it was just a trick.] is in knowing.
how bad? is it new?
you eat a lot of beets you have an electric toothbrush and you sleep less than six hours a night.
the red betamine from the beets stains the plaque deposits on your teeth which are then swirled by your spinning toothbrush. your heavy lids and your prematurely aging skin tell me that you're carrying a major sleep debt.
it was meaningless until i explained it.
if the wonder's gone when the truth is known there never was any wonder. you have tularaemia from your rabbits. i've put you on antibiotics you'll be better in a couple of days. sorry to spoil the mystery. [leaves.]
thank you. [pops a pill.]
[eyes boggle.] oh. my. god. [cuddy looks at him.] you're not wearing underwear.
skirt that tight you've got no secrets. skirt that tight i can tell if you've got an iud. you seen dr. cole?
you're blushing.
look at me. [cuddy looks up at him for a second house looks into her eyes as he grabs the pills. his eyes boggle again.] oh! [cuddy leaves.] my! god!
how'd you do it?
in this job yeah. [cole smiles.] crotch on the other hand... how'd you do it?
just tell me does cuddy have her groove back?
you handed over her panties. i don't think gallantry's really an option at this point.
excuse me we were talking.
why would you accuse the man who decides your fate of screwing up?
cole has travelled through the forest of crustaceans and brought us a treasure and he has earned his reward.
no sophie you can't. use whatever criteria you want.
so cardiac arrest and dic what's the common denominator?
good. go find out where he's hiding his cancer.
would have been more impressive if he'd predicted that he wasn't going to die. of course that takes longer to prove.
if you're going to kiss his ass to protect your ass at least wait until he's had a good idea. it's a symptom of him being a charlatan. he's a second-rate magician with a mysterious illness why wouldn't he predict his own death? if he's wrong we all forget it if he's right he goes out a legend.
i predict all your pagers go off... right now. [nothing happens.] oh! but if it had happened...
are you acting stupid because you know you're safe? clever.
he say anything about his hands or feet feeling weak?
no! do not give me credit for that. close doesn't count! that's how people get sucked into this stupidity.
somebody stabilise him. [kutner runs off cole follows.] the rest of you pull his medical records go back ten years. look for joint pain fatigue anything associated with amyloidosis. [they leave.]
i noticed a trend... if nobody does anything sick people often get sicker. you think it's remotely possible they had sex?
she barely knows him.
there was no woo. this was an effective test. [house scores.]
kidney failure means i was right about amyloidosis.
bad blood doesn't explain the heart or the liver.
is cardiac arrest no longer considered a major symptom?
so your new theory is that you were an idiot to take this case.
waste of time. he needs a bone marrow transplant for the amyloidosis.
go prove i'm right. do a subcutaneous fat biopsy.
you've got two hours.
no if i'd said that you got three lunar months that'd be completely arbitrary. two hours is how long it's going to take big love to finish a biopsy that you guys can't do because you're wasting two hours checking blood. [13 and kutner leave. house turns his attention back to wilson and the foosball.] nine <U+0096> three.
time flies what have you found?
inconclusive. fat doesn't always give you the answer. need to biopsy his actual organs lungs kidneys liver.
unless we start treatment for amyloidosis.
show me evidence of infection.
he'll be dead in a day.
no! he'll be half a day off. would it make you guys feel any better if i let you argue with me for... [looks at his watch.] three minutes before i order you to treat for amyloidosis? no. just treat for amyloidosis. [starts to leave.]
you're playing the cuddy card?
amyloidosis was your idea.
yeah me too you were never fun. give me the blood. i'm type ab give me the blood. [takes off his jacket.]
in where? how much tainted blood do you think they keep in here? how many people would have gotten sick...
[rolls up his sleeve.] ok. so transfuse blood from those donors. i'll be fine we move on treat for amyloidosis. [holds out his arms.] fill 'er up.
i have a new theory. you're not stubborn. you're not getting it checked 'cause you already know the answer. i found an old picture in your wallet.
i wasn't snooping i needed lunch money. figure it's your mum except she looks about 32 years old. the only reason not to update a photo in 20-odd years is she's not talking to you which would be interesting or she's dead. which would also be interesting. [13 gives house a look.] she's dead.
pretty young to have a dead mum. you were even younger 20 years ago. i googled her obituary. said she died at newhaven presbyterian after a long illness. parkinson's?
i'm sorry.
no you're not.
huntington's isn't the only thing that causes tremors.
i think you're the only one on the team who drinks decaf. i've been switching it out with regular ever since you dropped that file. you're trembling because you're hopped up on caffeine. the first file wasn't my fault. medical explanation for that is... people drop things.
you are.
with huntington's it's inevitable.
[surprised.] how could you not get tested? if your mum had it it's a 50% chance you're a bomb waiting to explode.
yeah because if you knew you couldn't do any of those things. [13 notices something.] what?
it's not pneumococcus.
i'm not the patient. the patient is the one whose body is shutting down i'm having a benign transfusion reaction.
you first.
you are not biopsying me.
[sighs.] the more transfusions you have the greater the chance of you reacting i've had three in a decade. fever will be gone in a couple of hours.
i am not sick.
but not of what the patient has! my kidneys are working i'm not bleeding out of every organ.
this is a waste of time. and it's distracting you from the actual case. [gets up and starts to walk away but stops after a couple of steps.]
the room is spinning.
no i'm dizzy and my mouth just went dry.
it's a symptom of narcotics. [looks at his cup of tea.] who spiked my... [collapses on the floor.]
patient dead yet?
[look at his hands and sees that he has been tied to the table.] that's a little much for a first date.
feels like you already got the... lung and kidney samples.
hey you might want to use a little bit of lidocaine...
you drugged me.
because there's nothing wrong with me. did foreman finally okay the amyloidosis treatment?
you can't be sure that i couldn't be sure.
inconclusive.
i usually like to give the lethal blood to foreman but i'm the only one who's type ab.
of course you're type o. universal donor. no wonder you're paying three alimonies.
[shrugs.] i don't. just seemed to fit the metaphor.
i didn't. you must have told me what you were.
[epiphany.] there's no reason to ask anyone their blood type.
nurse can i have a moment with my patient?
it's too late. he's dying.
i'm sorry i doubted you. be a shame if your secrets died with you. perhaps you've got that trick written down somewhere? or maybe you want to tell me and i'll write it down for you. that way... you can live on.
you were wrong about everything. it was never magic and you're not dying. [finn is surprised.] what's your blood type?
trust me it's way cooler to know.
up my sleeve. it's not amyloidosis. and his blood's fine we just gave him the wrong type. caused the dic explains the bleeding multisystem failures.
that's because we don't test blood for type. we test for antibodies.
apparently he has one more symptom his body's making an extra antibody type b. combine that with his natural type a and presto change-o he magically pulls blood type ab out of his hat.
god yes!
it's happened and apparently it's happened again. i finally have a case of lupus. flush him with saline transfuse four units type a start him on steroids. he'll be back hoodwinking idiots in no time.
big love rise. [cole stands up house gets down on one knee in front of cole and lifts the pillow above his head.] use their power wisely my lord.
cut-throat bitch rise. [amber stands up and gives a glare to cole.] you're surprised? you're everyone's pick. [to cole.] next victim.
now everyone's surprised. [to cole.] why?
no... i said you could use whatever criteria you want doesn't mean i don't want to know. he was right about this being a real case he was right about the botched transfusion and he's your love nugget. you've got no reason to pick him. [cole hangs his head and stares at the ground.] but somebody else does. kutner's a liability. he electrocuted himself lit a patient on fire it's only a matter of time before he burns the hospital down. you made a deal with cuddy. that's how you got her underwear. she sold it to you for the right to put her choices on the block.
your scheme was brilliant... and you're fired.
her rules not mine. the whole point of this was to subvert cuddy. you became her partner gave her power she didn't already have. let her greedy fingers into my cookie jar which sadly is not as dirty as it sounds. thanks for playing.
[picks it up and looks at it.] looks like an envelope with the results of the genetic test for huntington's inside.
i thought it'd be fun to find out together.
no you're afraid to know.
i don't have to know the lottery numbers but if someone offered them to me i'd take them.
sign on the door says closed for private event.
how much more private can you get? [eats some popcorn then reaches out] can you pass me a tissue?
[ignores the question points to the tv] total amnesia.
luisa maria can't decide if she's gonna keep the quadruplets.
she keeps them. i read it online. you happy now? i ruined it for you.
fine. i'll arrange for a patient with a mysterious illness to come in on thursday. [munches popcorn]
they all did fine in the wind tunnel.
[to cameron] hey! who's the sickest patient you got?
who'd you pick to fill your narrow little flats?
[checking quidd's chart] repeated trauma self-cutting fever arthralgia hyperinflated chest fatigue anaemia [turns the page] blood in the stool and urine. [interested] i've died and gone to diagnostic heaven.
wrap him up. i'll take him to go.
dizzying array of symptoms. any of which could be caused by drugs trauma being a loser.
[suddenly] oh forgot to mention final case. get it right you're hired. runner-up will be decided strictly on some definition of merit.
[to taub] speed counts. find something else.
you already picked.
too late. go run your tests.
no he has every symptom you'd expect of a drug addict.
if he had four out of twenty possible symptoms he'd be a garden-variety druggie. twenty out of twenty there's an underlying disease. [to the fellows] run your tests.
[concedes] one diagnosis one test at a time.
[interrupts] you just lost two points.
for thinking it makes a difference who goes first. only one person can be right.
can't have an objective system of measurement without numbers. you lose three for not knowing that.
from now on only the person holding this can treat or run tests.
i wanted to give you the serpent staff with the poison axe head but i left it in my car.
[seeing foreman] don't need you.
do-on't need your lecture.
you're not taking the long view.
nope if we're wrong it'll come pretty fast. the long view is the one where we pick the best team. that way we can use all the bags we save for grocery shopping.
you're not buying that argument are you?
in which case i'm back to my original position - don't need you.
what do you think of amber?
you don't seem that upset by it.
so now you've got to tell him that he's way behind on his christmas shopping.
medical clemency. interesting.
because i'm interested. when i'm interested i describe the things that make me interested as interesting.
[standing] why aren't other people able to just be interested?
sorry i'm late.
yes dr. wilson?
apparently not.
cool.
you can still use those if you're alive.
it's not about the money.
i started you all out on a hundred. and you blew up part of the building.
he got paged.
by me. i needed him right away. somewhere else.
[mock-hurt] foreman accused me of playing games with patient care.
[peeking from behind the whiteboard] get him on a nicotine patch. it'll keep up with his joneses. do your biopsy.
we all know it's true. you just wasted our time.
i'm not competing.
foreman was following him.
didn't see that i had much choice. [re: quidd not taub] he has schistocytes in his blood smear. which means the dic's causing clotting. what's causing the dic?
you lost your round.
if you were always right then you wouldn't have just been wrong. or let the patient mainline nicotine. or ravaged my anatomical model which grandma house bought me when i aced my mcats.
[picking up the eyeball] grandma does some part-time work.
thank you. i got her hips. [hands the eyeball to thirteen] carry it with pride.
[pointing to his office] manipulative bitch you're wanted in the loser's circle.
why do you hate drug addicts?
[sits] i know i'm fabulous. and i'm not the patient.
you're allowed but there's gotta be a reason. he's a patient. you don't know him. but you hate him.
'cause he's setting his own terms? not living in fear of every pop quiz?
[exhales] we were never talking about him. why are you afraid to lose?
just want to know the reason.
our patient's happy.
he's a happy idiot. that screws with your world view. there's something freeing about being a loser isn't there? why are you afraid to ?
[loudly over the noise] jimmy quidd's greatest stiff. 1989.
put it out himself. he wanted people to listen but apparently didn't want people to enjoy listening. now why would someone ?
why would _you_ have a blank liability release form plus your checkbook on top of your desk?
you usually keep your checkbook at home. it's your go-to excuse for why you can't lend me money. you're gonna pay the guy
[supportively] there's no negligence without injury.
he's not distressed with a death sentence. he's distressed with a life sentence.
you gave him three months of being someone special. you're paying the guy because he used to be boring and without you he's gonna be boring again.
results of the malaria test already?
you lost the patient.
taub you check lost-and-found. thirteen
come with me.
why do you love drug addicts?
i'm perfectly capable of drawing my own conclusions. are you capable of answering a question?
admirable. why?
there's always a reason. he's a patient you don't know him. why do you like him? the alcoholic parent druggie youth. there's no such thing as a saint without a past.
what makes you so sure that drugs are a mask for something else?
that's the dumbest thing i've heard in my life.
dr. cuddy. the face that launched a thousand long faces.
i want to keep all four.
you don't get negotiation do you? i say four you say three we finally settle on three and a half. which would be good news for taub.
[softly] who would you pick?
if you have any absolute truths that would be even better.
[stands and faces her] you're a bureaucratic nightmare. you're a chronic pain in the ass. and you're a second-rate doctor at best.
but you do [conceding] know this stuff.
can we get this over with?
stop guessing. you'll spoil the surprise.
[to fred and rex] hey i was wondering if you guys know the girl from ipanema.
nothing. what are you doing?
oh you're gonna be denying that in a second.
hmm. [to fred and rex] next time make sure you bring enough for the whole class. [to thirteen] he's been sharing needles with this guy. as he injected this guy's blood his own blood attacked it chewed it up. those were the fragments we found.
we're back to bloody vomit and his two dozen other drug or non-drug symptoms. re-check everything. throw these guys out and strap the patient down.
good news for you thirteen. 'cause that is definitely not drugs.
[vo] the blood clots were drug-related.
the coughing up blood and the respiratory arrests are still on the table.
if i'd wanted a knee-jerk drug diagnosis i would have told foreman where we are.
[angry at amber] because he followed you!
yet if i wanted to forgive his drano-drinking ways i wouldn't ignore what you just said.
[reading a test result] nope lumbar puncture's clear.
true and yet here i am with the results.
yep. minus fifty.
[to kutner] is this true?
's too bad 'cause that would have earned you forty points for cleverness. the points go to amber. foreman you run the tests.
[after a few seconds] he's not gonna run the tests is he?
no.
you mean besides your music?
yeah. i resent you because you're not perry como.
well then that stage you stand on is an odd choice.
you have three choices in this life. be good get good or give up. you've gone for column d. why?
simple answer is if you don't try you can't fail. [beat] are you really that simple?
you have some peculiar masses near your heart.
well unlike your music they elicit some emotional response.
that's odd.
you care if i appreciate your music but you don't care if you live or die.
maybe the answer is that simple.
hey for point and shoot i thought i did okay.
the clinic's been quarantined. a patient came in with avian-flu-like symptoms. and fifty extra dollars in spending money.
[angry voice] okay minus five for ingratitude! no thank you dr. house. no here's a bottle of codeine for your troubles dr. house. oh no.
i could. we'd definitely get the answer. but since the opiates would decrease his respiratory drive and he already can barely breathe minus ten for asking me to kill the patient.
you know that the heart does the blood stuff right? and the lungs do the breathing.
what do you want me to do?
you said the picture sucked because the patient was shaking. mra will be worse.
you were doing better before you had a good idea.
[thinks] you can see me right?
we want to look at his heart. with our eyes.
if it goes that way yeah that'll be excellent.
granted it'll be a short one. who do you think i should hire?
it would be rude to ask him to leave now.
it's not whether you win or lose.
respiratory failure. enlarged lymph nodes. whatever this is he's not gonna be breathing much longer.
it means the patient's life is almost over. you can call it what you want.
we're done people! come on! i need an idea and i don't care who they come from.
thirteen kutner.
i'm sorry. go home.
doesn't matter. he just told me that i've gotta
you fluid-overloaded him. anyone's lungs would leak after that surgery. good-bye.
no sign of bronchospasm.
drug diagnosis. that's what you're going with?
that firing thing was all a dream.
go find where he gets his drugs and what's in them. put him on dimercaprol for heavy metal poisoning.
[purses his lips] competition works.
this guy's amazing. there's not one redeeming note.
i've heard that not all lawyers are as ethical as the ones we see on tv.
a lot of the guys on tv don't either.
it directly affects my bottom line. you have less money to lend
and i'm trying to teach you that everyone is out for theirs. you might as well keep yours.
i'm asking for input! i thought you would have admired the humility.
[pointing at the record player] god i'm gonna put the record back on.
[stands] wanna know why you offered that guy six grand?
you think you can cure pain!
you think you're responsible for every failure every patient's boring life every friend's screwed-up !
that can't possibly be as poignant as it sounded.
why are you telling me this?
is it medically relevant?
well then why are you ?
[to wilson] no.
this time i'm firing taub and amber.
it's only a joke if you come up with the answer. it's not really funny if you don't. thirteen and kutner you're fired too. foreman
so all we know is that he's dying. [to the fellows] who wants to tell the patient?
fine. we'll get some kid to go talk to him. it's the only people he gets along with anyway.
he works with abandoned kids?
[epiphany-time] i think so.
i need a brain biopsy.
[clarifying] for the patient.
stop it. [to taub and thirteen] you two switch.
because i wouldn't have gotten the answer without each of them.
i want you to feel guilty. [points at amber] she thinks the patient's a loser. [thirteen] she thinks the patient's a winner. just a regular guy with a regular problem. [taub] he thinks he's gonna be great once he's all growed up. [kutner] and he thinks what did you think?
right. less interesting but just as important.
you're all wrong. my mom always said that two wrongs don't make a right. she never said anything about four wrongs. i always found that suspicious. [points his cane at thirteen] plain old measles. [points at taub and kutner] constant exposure from hanging out with oliver twist and his lot.
[points to amber] patient's immune system was shredded with years of drugs. they're early markers of rash and fever. would have been lost in a druggie. his immune system overreacted. that's why his body went haywire.
if i'm right the virus is in his brain. wrong course of treatment could be his last course.
what did it look like?
[to cuddy mock-urgently] good god woman. how much more proof do you need?
hu-up!
i got something much more noxious.
it's not as commonly used but sound can be just as big an irritant.
[loudly over the cacophony] now remind me of your influences here. 'cause i'm gonna say thelonious monk and the sound a trash compactor makes when you crawl inside it.
i don't do it for you. i do it for me.
[to kutner] what do you think? is he seizing or dancing?
play him the b side. it's even worse. schedule an or for the biopsy. see you in the lecture hall.
a little mood music. build the suspense.
you seriously have no idea when to shut up do you?
amber please stand.
you play the game better than anybody else here.
but for the wrong reasons.
you were wrong. [beat] twenty years ago [points to the record player] this was recorded by jim moskowitz. who later became known as jimmy quidd. loves kids apparently has a heart perhaps even a soul. if you're gonna work for me you have to be willing to be wrong willing to lose. 'cause you just did. [somberly] you're fired.
thirteen please stand.
you're fired.
he was a drug addict. [beat] four applicants two spots. if i had three i'd keep you.
game over!
[shrugs innocently] you told me to hire kutner and taub.
oops.
now that is sexist.
is he a dude?
hire two women.
[seriously] they both do.
[sideways] how long have you known me?
[slightly amused tone] my ears are burning.
well if i lie that would be little reassurance. [glances up and starts tearing down the streamers with his cane.] dr. kutner who told you that it would be a good idea to put up superficial representations of a hypocritical season celebrating a mythical figure?
he lied. [tosses a santa plushie into the trashcan] homie knows better hymie doesn't care and huntington's would have done a better job.
that you know of.
[cuts foreman off and trashes more streamers] because i got sued when i called you honeybuns.
i liked you better fifteen seconds ago when you were afraid for your job. [more tearing down of streamers by the coffee bar] so who's sick?
she says there's no history.
okay this is gonna be a tough case. i have almost no knowledge of alien physiology.
actually there isn't. that's kinda what makes it a rule.
[patronizingly] oh i didn't know she'd promised. [thirteen isn't amused]
she lied about it.
she lied to the world. reconstructive surgery is designed to convince people that <U+0097>
mri what's left of her chest. set the machine to scan for irony. [sets his cup down pausing] i'm going to go redo the patient history.
you mom tell you about all the drugs she does?
what about you?
[sarcastically] are you a doctor?
that's not an answer. it's an evasion. [looks at his lollipop for a second] are you drinking? you ever sneak a drink?
i understand why you don't want your mom to know but i'm her doctor so <U+0097>
why?
[won't give up yet] what's her favorite way to have sex?
[rolls his eyes] are you a doctor? did you go to med school since the last time i asked?
[cuts her off] white lies?
those are lies we tell to make other people feel better.
rationalizations?
those are lies we tell to make ourselves feel better.
[cuts her off again] lies of omission? [jane looks unsure] saddle bronc or doggie? that's sex talk.
it's child abuse.
there's a reason that everybody lies. it works. it what allows society to function it's what separates man from beast.
you wanna know every place your mom's thumb has been?
lies are a tool they can be used either for good no wait i got a better one. lies are like children. hard work but they're worth it. because the future depends on them.
[interrupts] you lie to them! you pretend that their constant ponderous musing are interesting. you tell them they're not losing their boyish good looks or becoming worn out.
we need a new theory.
not yet.
wouldn't you not talking have made this a shorter conversation? kid says mom's a slut.
no i called her mom a slut. jumps anything with a pole and a pulse. not that i'm judging here. given her medical history i'm actually impressed.
stds aren't the only risk in risky sex. problem in sleeping with strangers is they're strange.
send foreman and taub. they're better liars more likely to get to the truth.
[feels her glands under her throat but then is distracted by the necklace she's wearing] saint nicholas?
also seamen merchants archers prostitutes and prisoners.
[shrugs] or just a credit hog.
open wide. [shines a flashlight into her mouth] say aah.
only for the next 24 hours as long as you take the antibiotics.
take a personal day.
[looks at her with a mock serious expression] i'll write your pimp a note.
you're tested for aids every three months and your necklace.
i think they just like kneeling. [smiles] you don't have the skin of a seaman the fingers of an archer the clothes of a merchant or the attitude of an ex-con. so just leaves one left.
then you owe me half a lapdance.
got the memo last year. i want to hire forty more fellows.
they work better when they're scared.
he have any symptoms?
see? clear simple statement of facts describing their cooperation with absolutely no attitude or fear. [reaches to grab another patient's file]
oh yeah.
well that never hurt anybody.
[looks at one of the slips of paper in his hands frowning] do you spell homie with a y?
i want to be respectful.
not just you guys. [turns around to grab a christmas stocking and puts the slips of paper inside shaking it up to mix them] i like presents too. [offers the stocking up to taub] pick a name.
see this is why no one likes your people.
the notion of picking one time of the year to be decent to other people is obscene because it's actually validating the notion of being miserable wretches the rest of the year.
on the other hand you are now a team. gotta work together and the simple fact is giving people crap makes people like people so spend 25 bucks. learn to love
interesting.
[cuts her off] indicates nothing. i was referring to his reaction to the name he got.
means there's someone here who wouldn't be fun to buy for. [purposeful pause as he stares at kutner] i wonder who. [offers up the stocking to thirteen next] pick a name then go check out the patient's house.
[smiles slowly] interesting
no family history of kearns. go to their house <U+0097>
you're absolutely right. go to their house <U+0097>
fine. do an mri check for ms. and a fluorescein angiogram of her eyes to see if we missed a bleed somewhere.
oh! and whoever goes to their house get me their computers.
you talk to your kid about sex so she'll think you're being open about everything. keeps her from asking questions about the things you don't want to talk about. [goes to grab the last name from the stocking for himself]
[looks at the slip of paper] yes! exactly who i wanted. this is going to be fun.
i want to drive them apart.
conflict's built right into the name. santa's about sharing secret's about withholding. [scores a goal and continues on playing by himself]
[interrupts] what did you get your wife for your final anniversary?
she hated it.
then you didn't buy it. [scores another goal for the other team]
[stops and turns to look at wilson obviously not impressed] gifts allow us to demonstrate exactly how little we know about a person and nothing pisses off a person more than being shoved in the wrong pigeon hole.
[frowns at the computer still having no luck] someone get their birthdays out of the file.
[rifling through files on the computer] so she says. find anything on the mri?
[with more emphasis this time] so she says.
[musingly] lacks personal boundaries promiscuous inappropriate obsession with truth-telling certainly sounds like a psych case.
nope.
her mind is tricking her body. we need to trick her mind. or even better.
i know.
you have a genetic defect you choose to ignore it. this woman has a genetic defect chooses to butcher herself to be safe. yet what you claim to be fascinated by is her honesty. interesting.
hey i gave you credit for interesting.
you're protecting her because you're jealous she did what you couldn't.
i need you.
fine keep your mouth shut. i still need you. if it doesn't work you gotta hold the kid down until someone else finishes lying to mom.
that does actually serve a medical purpose.
jane.
if you show doubt the placebo treatment won't work.
[nods] a lot of great medications.
because we might be wrong. and those medications take a long time to work and since your mom's condition is declining there's a chance the drugs won't tell us anything until it's too late.
maybe she's hiding it from you.
just doing what every good mom does. protecting her child from bad news that she can't do anything about.
you don't know how to lie. you don't know how to tell when you're being lied to.
i know <U+0097>
mm-hmm. figured i could sow some dissension and get a few ties and sweaters.
it's secret santa.
[shrugs] they'll argue about what to do with that information. ties are less important than the dissension.
[head in his hand looking disappointed] well that sucks.
4300 saved emails and not a single mention of lesbionic sanchez or man-gina.
swollen lymph nodes means it wasn't psychological.
[glances to the present] santa obviously. cause you know i worship him. [pauses and frowns] no wait i mean satan. i always get them confused. [continues to read through emails] what is an alpine butterfly? and why is she learning how to do one?
[interrupts] it's just a climbing knot.
i did once. [sarcastically] and she just tied me down and whined about how hard it is to be dean of medicine.
[still staring at the screen then laughs in a mocking way] that's funny friend sent her a garfield cartoon. that cat sure does love lasagna.
[pausing for a moment] if it weren't for my obsessions you wouldn't know that she has sarcoidosis.
eighteen months ago she sold her stairmaster. it was only two months old. now either she needed the cash or climbing stairs was getting more difficult. [takes a sip out of his cup and continues to scroll through the emails to show them] twelve months ago she cancelled a hiking trip. now she either just wanted to sit home and watch tv or walking was getting more difficult. she's been suffering joint pain for the last two years.
pull my ribbon. [mockingly seductive] if you know what i mean.
that's not what i meant. [proceeds to open the present] could just be an inactive phase.
i remembered. i'm not a satanist i'm a druid.
yet.
[makes a sad face] that's a shame. i'm not gonna surprise her with one for christmas.
wow!
[grins] now either that cost more than 25 bucks or i'm seriously starting to doubt steve jobs' business strategies.
thanks!
[pleased] they're arguing right now.
did you look in the box on my desk? oh by the way your mom called. your dad's dead.
it wouldn't have been as effective sitting in my closet in my home.
no they're gonna guess that it was from me. might even be 90% sure that it was from me but all that means is they're 10% sure that one of the other guys is screwing them over.
[gets up to follow him] i couldn't do that.
yeah. that's more where my powers lie.
[looks genuinely concerned] have her platelets dropped?
[frowns at them mockingly] listing all the possible causes is only impressive if you can do it reverse alphabetically. we need to know why her platelet machine is broken. go to the factory. do a bone marrow aspiration.
[lowers his voice] well you're not supposed to tell.
or somebody else wants to make me happy.
on one hand you should be in bed. [shuts the door] on the other hand i told you to rest so i see your dilemma.
[in a singsong-y voice] clap on.
[wants to say yes but then shuts his mouth] i'm saving my money for a red ryder bb-gun.
darker shade of lipstick?
[leans closer to inspect her lips presumably] you tell your mother what you do?
doesn't matter. i'm curious.
[touches a finger to her lips and feels them] you do a donkey show? [a purposeful pause] i'm not curious. it matters.
wow that is a creepy smile. [cringes lightly] i bet the donkey's is even creepier.
nope. it's my job. contagious ecthyma. any contact can cause rashes flu symptoms sore throat. has there been contact? [cringing again]
[starts writing her prescription] okay. antibiotic cream for you and a love glove for francis. you'll both be fine.
sorry i hate westerns.
[interrupts them] hey hey. it's christmas! why are you guys fighting?
good for an aspiring superhero. fatal for a human hoping to make it to kwanzaa.
it has free will. it doesn't have to be anything doesn't want to be.
[to kutner] you're right it's gotta be. go run her blood and hope that your sunny optimism isn't misplaced.
they accused kutner of screwing up a test. because they hate him.
well one day he will screw up a test. if they don't accuse him of that because they like him someone could die. [a pause] where are we going?
[interrupts] why is a 49 year old cleveland man a closer match than her daughter?
[frowns and stop playing with his watch] why not?
you're wrong about sainted mommy.
[purposefully articulate] yes. yes it is.
[gaze lingers on her for a moment and then drops taub's present back onto his desk as well] i will. and nobody leaves here until we find out what killed her.
sure you can.
what you have is one last christmas with your daughter. one last chance to give her a present. [a purposeful pause] the truth. inexpensive highly valued never have to stand in line to return it the day after christmas.
a mother who's going to die doesn't refuse a donor test because it might hurt. she refuses when she knows it won't match. which tends to happen when mother and daughter aren't mother and daughter.
i could do dna tests if you'd rather keep lying to me.
a promise to an addict is worth more than a promise to your daughter?
right. [shrugs] she lives a lie you get to die a hypocrite.
yeah.
i got a watch a vintage lp and a second edition conan doyle. if that wasn't bad enough my patient's dying.
i saw something amazing.
pure truth. she told her mother that she was dying. stripped her of all hope.
it's like watching some bizarre astronomical event that you know you're never going to see again.
because i don't care. she cared. she did it anyway. [frowns for a second] she did it because she cared.
oh don't ruin it. don't pin this on christ he's got enough nails in him. [scowls at wilson's reindeer hat]
[cuts him off] why don't you take off that hat?
it's a moose on a jew.
[sighs] things have their place. you wouldn't hang dreidels from a christmas tree.
no. they don't. [turns and goes back into the hospital]
[enters] to save us all from satan's power when we were gone astray. have you people no holiday spirit? bring me the eggnog of good cheer!
[stares at him] scrooge. give the patient rispiradone.
i am going to perform a christmas miracle.
except for the one we discounted early because it was impossible. when fetus forms it's just a mass of cells. [continues feeling her body working down her shoulders] breast tissue covers extensive portions of the body. as the fetus develops most of this tissue recedes remaining only in the fun places. [feeling down at her hip now] but sometimes extra breast tissue is left behind in places where it doesn't belong. [down to her legs now] rispiradone does a lot of things. one is it makes breast tissue swell so we can find it more easily.
taub's parents have a winter condo in florida. they're still new yorkers.
[interrupts] don't care. i told a parable. and now i'm going to raise the dead
[to thirteen] give me that syringe.
yes i could be wrong. if i am she's dead so shut up.
rispiradone also causes galactorrhea. [pulls the needle out]
open your mouth.
relax you've had it before.
we'll cut out your mom's tumor and start her on chemo. all the rest of your symptoms should go away.
have a wonderful life. [exits]
patient's a crazy person?
[still fiddling with the tv] there's something wrong with coma guy's cable.
slippery slope. today we withhold porn tomorrow it's clean bandages.
after you talk to carlson maybe i'll...
well that wouldn't be any fun. and for the next two months winds make it impossible to fly anything in or out.
that wouldn't be any fun. if it's appendicitis down there her appendix ruptures she dies there's nothing we can do. if it's stones she takes pain meds the stone passes there's nothing we need to do.
excessive antarctic drilling. bad for the environment and the ladies.
this is where it gets fun. [dumps a box of stuff on the table.] these are the supplies and medications she has available.
i just said...
who doesn't? that reminds me. [leaves.]
coma guy needs cable. women's billiards is the only thing that's keeping him alive.
carlson won't listen to me since i hit on his wife.
god no. i thought i was hitting on his daughter. [cameron rolls her eyes.] look you're on the committee. he'll listen to you. [cameron looks surprised.] i'm an avid reader of committees with hotties message boards.
[following her.] studies conducted in major hospitals indicate that happy patients recover faster. studies conducted in my apartment show that tv makes people happy. premium channels have a particularly striking effect.
until this injustice is righted i am going to waste 13 grand a day. [tips out a box of tongue depressors onto the floor. cameron just looks at him.] it's 2 dollars 49 cents down.
[pulls out rubber gloves one at a time from a box and throws them on the ground.] how much is 13 grand divided by 4 cents?
i'll be fine on tuesdays. [cameron pulls the curtain in front of him.]
how's it going team macgyver? [sees the screen.] oh great. i can't get cable but i can get the south pole on hi-def.
test? did ford test the edsel? did coke test new coke? did shakespeare test his final play snow dogs?
can she see me?
think jagger shows up for the sound check? [cate walks away from the camera.] okay. roadies off the stage. go help cameron in the er.
er is standing room only. which means cameron's bound to make a mistake. find it so i can blackmail her. as far as you know this is way more than just some silly battle over cable. [new fellows leave foreman sits down.]
you you might want to just dial it down a smidge.
let me guess. you're as pure as the driven snow.
struvite stones are possible in people who don't have sex. they're certainly possible in people who claim not to have...
you do realise that only one of us is a real doctor?
while we're waiting for that test to prove me right start iv cefuroxime. keep the infection in the stone from wiping out your kidneys.
she's a great psychiatrist. one session i've got shrinkage.
your chem 7 results show that your kidney function is declining. sounds like a kidney stone to me.
you agreed that the chem 7 would decide if it was a struvite stone.
you're not taking the cefuroxime. she's right handed. means she would've put the iv in her left arm. catheter in the arm makes it hard to bend the elbow the way people do when they drink!
last i checked you had a limited supply of doctors.
right he called dibs.
you're breathing fast.
lift up your chin. show me your windpipe. [she does so both foreman and house move closer to the screen for a better look.]
means her right lung is collapsing.
there's no time. get a syringe and a needle.
shut up and look. [cate does as she's told.]
she needs to re-inflate that lung. [cate finds a needle.] okay now pull out that plunger. i want you to stab yourself in your right side between the second and third rib in the midclavicular line. [cate pulls out the plunger but hesitates.] by the time we get someone else there you'll have suffocated. just do it. [cate stabs her chest. we see the lung expanding and hear air being released from the needle. cate starts to breathe easier.] see all the good stuff that happens when you listen to me?
right side pain vomiting and now a lung that gets traumatised without any trauma. sounds odd probably is odd.
no it's fine. i made sure we got the south pole long distance plan. your latest kidney function test shows...
the more you interrupt the longer my grandstanding is going to take.
since the patient and her doctor happen to be the same person. your kidney function is still declining means you have a kidney problem.
no makes us both wrong. not equally. you were at least six wronger.
they run a ppd before you shipped out?
and you're worried the tumour might overhear realise we're on to it.
only if you count the tumour.
probably in your abdomen. but you don't have any advanced imaging equipment. you also don't have a surgeon to biopsy it any stains to use on the slide or an oncologist to analyse it. [foreman gives him a look.] we're too far away to hold her hand.
since the only imaging equipment you have is x-ray let's start there. x-ray your entire body.
good for you.
she's annoying. refused to take the antibiotics because other people might need them.
i'm a complicated man. i loathe her for many reasons.
you talk a lot of smack about tranny hookers.
lymphoma.
you can't analyse a biopsy without a stain.
cause they don't have stains down there. we need a substitute.
anything with a strong colour could work as a stain. printer ink food colouring coffee.
find a node closer to the surface one she can biopsy.
that makes sense?
in a shockingly calm manner after i'd just been jerking you around for 30 seconds without you complaining or analysing said jerking.
in a lavender shirt. you for some reason are happy.
abnormal nodes can be felt before they can be seen on an x-ray. you're wearing that shirt for someone.
have to. you and foreman are going to be here looking for a stain. [house leaves.]
i can think of at least three reasons. one of them's medical.
you're not in the hospital. no reason for me to be.
you're not in my apartment. you're three quarters of a world away. i promise not to get fresh.
one of us has to.
it's got walls a floor and in some places a roof.
it's my apartment it's not my soul. [cate just sits there. picks up the laptop and points it towards the room.] living room.
[points it back towards himself.] only if you count jenna jameson's autobiography as a gynaecological text.
i love to laugh. moving on. [moves the laptop again showing a glimpse of the half bottle of bourbon on the coffee table.]
you are so far off. it's bourbon. [gives her a better look at the bottle. then continues showing the apartment.]
well you're sick. you have 20 people down the hall and you've had exactly one visitor.
you don't like people. you hide on that ice cube so
[rolls his eyes.] how about if i just get naked and you shut up?
great. you've got me all figured out. you going to try and fix me now?
how long does it take you to get naked?
i saw socks. that's not naked.
use your right hand to palpate the nodes. any node you can feel is one we can biopsy. let's start with your breasts move down to the ass then...
well you could. but i'd never forgive myself if we found something before we got to your breasts.
turn your head. locate the scm muscle.
they teach you that before or after the class on fondling your inner child? [house turns on some music.]
just thought it might help you relax. anything in the axillary nodes?
slide your hand to your sternum probe for nodes. moving slowly downward. [cate does as told.]
sorry can't hear you on account of your heavy breathing.
[turns off the music.] hold it. [cate stops.] your fingers didn't go quite as deep. feel that node again.
looks like you're doing a biopsy.
come on cate. let's get this over with.
just trying to move things along bob. [wilson un-mutes.]
you okay?
it's a valid medical question.
she's 9000 miles away. [elevator opens they walk out towards the exit.] and while a certain part of me unfurled
thought you were following me.
where are you going?
you never go out to lunch. means there's a reason you're going out to lunch. i assume that reason is a human being.
sandwiches can come here.
yet she's not which i find interesting.
small world. [follows.]
it's got two doors.
why would you think that i'm
let's assume that's true. and it certainly sounds like it might be. what are you going to do?
well done.
put these up. [hands them some fliers.]
[putting up a flier.] i love a new puppy. my last one was delicious very tender.
if she can resign she can un-resign. go to def-con one. forget waiting for a mistake make her make one.
harm suggests permanent damage. get her to screw up then fix it. oh and this time don't tell her what you're going to do before you do it. [leaves.]
bad news is you're 0 for 2 in the kidney department.
of course. there's cable. and the freedom to work pant-free.
wilson found signs of inflammation in your biopsy. that plus the two failing kidneys points to autoimmune disease. probably sle or vasculitis. treatment for both is prednisone. start with 100 milligrams...
take the prednisone you'll get better that'll be your confirmation.
that was not a waste. we ruled out
there a good chance he's going to die anyway since there won't be a doctor there to help him.
right just tell her to head north until she runs into a hospital.
yeah you can have it back. i've already been through it. i like your ice on a sprain metaphor. makes it seem like we're not killing her.
without her mittens. mom told me that was a bad idea. especially that winter it was 70 below and i had dual kidney failure.
[picks up a receipt off his desk.] $190 restaurant tab. that's dessert probably booze. means you lingered. means it's at least the third date. means [starts to leave.]
to talk to the people i pay to come up with medical ideas.
before a.n.a. testing people had autoimmune diseases. how did they know?
before that.
when you shake the test tube the paperclip will damage some of your blood cells. if you have an autoimmune disease your immune system will gorge itself on the damaged cells. they'll get big and fat so you can see them under a microscope. [she puts the test tube down and picks up the oxygen mask.] how you doing?
couple hours. or you could stop being a hypocrite and take the prednisone now.
if your psych patients demanded lab results you'd never make a diagnosis.
everyone is miserable. you don't change that because people don't change.
oh shut up. i get enough of this from wilson.
sorry about that. call me when you get the results. [turns off the camera.]
she has an autoimmune disease. tell the psych department she's in denial.
we should be hearing from the south pole in a few minutes.
well there's nothing to be done. she screwed up. she's got no one to blame but herself. [cuddy leaves.]
cuddy wouldn't can her for one screw-up and if she did she wouldn't come to me. and if she did she wouldn't open with how's your patient. and if she did...
timeless question. in this case she conspired with your coworkers to teach me that some things are more important than cable. and i'm gonna have to teach them that they're wrong. come on south pole really should be calling. [motions for foreman to give him money to pay for his food.]
you're basing that on a test done with a paperclip. just take the prednisone.
there is one way. you can take this experimental drug called... pred-ni-sone! your kidneys start working...
[scrunches his chip packet near the microphone.] i i think foreman may have just broken up there. what he actually said was there is no other test.
i rejected it because if you're frozen solid it's hard to get the needles into your arms.
eight minutes outside would kill a healthy person. and healthy people don't suck on oxygen masks. healthy people can pee.
just take the prednisone!
oh i'm sure she's just fine. cate? [to foreman] do you know if there's anyone down there who has a cell phone.
means it's not autoimmune. good thing she's in a coma or we'd have to listen to her gloat.
to find the useful members of my team.
happy? because of you i'm not going to be able to watch law and order in korean.
because i want to ask you about your girlfriend. i must know who she is or you'd have told me her name.
there's only about 12 people we both know. i can't remember five of their names so we're down to... cuddy your ex-wives...
yes if only she wasn't in a coma we could get her to run a test to find out why she's in a coma. the results would likely be paradoxical. can't be cuddy 'cause you're straight. can't be
too complicated... unless he's thirsty.
let's say yeah.
these are your only questions? not is it safe? or is there another way? or are you out of your minds?
wait a second. you're in love with her. that explains why you're so eager to get her naked then have a drink. cause most guys like to go the other way around.
because now i know that i can get you to do anything to save her. tell him how to tap the keg. [leaves.]
you got cameron fired.
no kidding! get me cable. how tough can that be? cost a woman her job. there's only one thing you can say to keep me from firing you.
wrong.
that should be a hint as to what you're supposed to say.
wrong.
wrong.
right. you should've said this two days ago. do not play games with me. number one you're going to lose you're just not ready. number two the game was to force you to stop playing games. i need you to stand up to me. challenge me. i need you to stop worrying about getting fired. go pay for my cable. [starts to leave.]
i didn't mean on this. seriously i need cable.
milk milk lemonade?
that's bad news.
we don't do anything. you're going to drill a hole in her skull. if she regains consciousness it's increased intracranial pressure.
she'll die. but if it's the hypothalamus she's dead anyway.
nope but it'll give us more time to figure out what's wrong.
you love her right? you'd do anything to save her.
listen listen. i am not going to let you hurt her. okay? now please... this is her only chance.
well that was easy.
if it comes out the other side you've gone too far.
let the fluid drain. [blood starts to come out of the hole in cate's head. after a few seconds cate starts to wake up.]
south pole doc is out of her coma and now we have a new symptom. increased intracranial pressure.
that's the patient room. icp plus kidney problems plus lung collapse equals?
but not clots. what causes blood clots?
pfo would've been discovered in her pre-south pole physical exam.
she has zero risk factors. forget fat think clots.
you're standing up to me?
just to clarify. you should do that when you're right. sorry for the confusion. how could a clot
that's a perfect fit... except it's completely impossible! fat emboli requires an unrepaired bone break. between the x-ray and the exam i've seen her entire [epiphany.] see that's what i'm talking about. [kutner bows.]
take off her socks. [sean moves to her feet.]
your toe is broken.
bits of bone marrow have been leaking into your blood stream. those fat emboli have caused blockages in your kidney lungs and brain.
cold numbs everything. does a particularly great job on the extremities.
this one you will feel.
he drilled a hole in your skull after drinking your pee. i think he's up for this.
now splint your toe. you'll be fine.
don't thank me. he's the one who saved your life. [cate looks at sean. they smile and hug. during the hug cate looks back towards house and smiles. house turns off the camera.] he likes her. [house leaves.]
well you didn't pick her up. which means she's coming from work too. which means you're comfortable enough to meet her.
i think i've got it narrowed down to three possibilities.
it's not one of your ex-wives.
they don't. they should but they don't. i called them. someone new but someone i know.
briefly. you ordering the wine before she got here
you're demonstrating the illusion of manly confidence. which means you haven't closed the deal yet.
still?
your theory is i cared therefore i let her keep her socks on? if that's what love is then i don't want to have anything to do with it.
if i'd made her take them off like i should've i would've seen the toe and would've solved the case days ago.
[shocked.] cut throat bitch?
cross-species mating. i feel like darwin in the galapagos.
she's a cutthroat bitch. you cry over dark victory.
you don't like strong you don't like assertive. you like needy.
she's not dying is she?
i give it two months.
not really fair. you're not objective. [shrugs] but i'm all about the teaching...
[genuinely surprised sounding hurt] you hid this from me?
you shouldn't have discounted the sex. she's obviously limber enough to put off the meltdown for two months.
she's scary. why does scary need pathetic?
[acts helpless] i don't see that i have any choice.
you all right with that?
no impulse to save her from me?
ampicillin for the uti. [hands the folder back to thirteen] shiny cast for the leg. [to all] you guys know wilson's dating amber?
kidney cancer.
[to kutner] i thought amber scared you guys.
so do canadians. doesn't mean i wanna date one.
or... sodium was absorbed by a toxin already in her system. [to kutner] was it just the legs? or did you detect something resembling a soul?
coulda been a cossack. if this was eighteenth-century poland and cossacks were into household cleansers. which is why it's more likely that the poisoner was poisonee.
corollary of people lie is people sin. in my world people includes jews.
hasidic women marry young so they can start pushing out little hasidilings. thirty-eight means a woman not on anyone's hot-list. being pushed onto a guy who's not on anyone's hot-list. no way out no way out...
fine.
check her innards for bad cells and her home for bad karma. carbolic acid should be on her shelf right next to the regret and the self-loathing.
you figured that i'll hire you...
... if you promised to dump wilson.
wilson had a key.
you figure that i'll make your life hell at first but i'll eventually see how good you are and keep you.
no it's not. you know it's not. means you just wanna stay in my orbit 'cause you figure i'll eventually realize that i made a mistake and you're gonna be able to rub my face in it.
no it's not. and you know it's not. 'cause you know that even if i made a mistake i'd never admit that i made a mistake. which means that you're just toying with wilson to toy with me.
[drops the book on the nearby table] your goal is pure feral vengeance.
no that's not it. because a bag of flaming poop bypasses the bystander.
give him back his sweatshirt. 'pit stains don't become you.
except for the one you missed.
i'm not talking about a new symptom. i'm talking about one that presented six months ago.
religion is a symptom of irrational belief and groundless hope. altered mental status on the other hand is a symptom of porphyria.
the woman didn't _just_ choose to keep kosher. [sits] she went directly to the extremes of hasidism a life of stringent rules. she became a masochist.
people don't change. they might want to. they need to.
he switched jobs to save his marriage. he did it to avoid change.
we would if she was also tinkling blood out of her overexcited bladder. pump hadassah full of hematin and give her a phlebotomy.
if you prefer i can give your wife my second-best diagnosis.
d'you know wilson's dating amber?
yes it fits _many_ of the symptoms.
you live according to god's six hundred commandments right?
you understand them all?
but you follow the ones you don't understand because the ones you do understand make sense and you believe that the guy who created them knows what he's doing.
so you will trust my diagnosis and you'll let me treat her because in this temple [scarily] i am dr. yahweh.
people don't change. for example i'm gonna keep repeating people don't change.
they're still alcoholics. if they never take a drink as long as they live it's only 'cause they didn't live long enough.
[pointing upwards] better ask him.
[hisses] yes. the male always drives the female. so what caused the breathing problem?
wegener's wouldn't explain the changed mental status.
well i wrote it in black. i'm always serious when i use black. lupus would explain...
are you agreeing with me or you making a point?
that's gonna take longer.
life is messy argument. nice. explains everything without explaining anything. if it's lupus there's a heart problem we don't know about yet. run her through a stress test. if she has a heart attack i'm right.
you're afraid to give her a heart attack.
no reason to be afraid. unless you think i'm right.
[feigning pleasant surprise] oh my god! what are you guys doing here?
i had a sudden yen for fusion.
i call you cutthroat bitch... well quod erat demonstrandum. and i speak in latin because i don't try to hide what an ass i am.
any minute now she's gonna hit him in the face with your testicles.
she's the anti-wilson. she's a force for evil.
you like that!
wait a second.
this isn't just about the sex. you like her personality. you like that she's conniving. you like that she has no regard for consequences. you like that she can humiliate someone if it serves...
[wide-eyed] oh my god. you're sleeping with me.
only proves this isn't lupus. just as the leg pain proves it isn't wegener's.
do an mri to look for the clot. then do an fmri.
if the clot hasn't dissolved. an fmri can show signs of near-ischemic stroke in post-ischemic parts of the brain.
gimme ten bucks.
i missed lunch.
[annoyed] i missed lunch!
how's our mental yentl?
go restart her iv.
nothing. but like so many procedures we put patients through it hurts. which if she's enjoying it will show up in pretty colors.
it showed she didn't have a blood clot which is diagnostically relevant. and it can show that she's become a masochist also diagnostically relevant. and it'll be cool.
either explain which part of my analysis didn't make sense. or go do it.
heavens. look at her limbic system. pleasure centers are lighting up like a hanukkah bush. foreman must have a touch like an elephant.
yes it _was_ impressive. [tight smile]
get her up.
all the way up. on her feet.
make her do that again.
got it.
so what causes bloody urine loss of bladder control leg pain altered mental status and [backwards] pressure-blood in direction-wrong?
low catecholamines in the urine means no pheochromocytoma in the jewess.
[reminding] mental status!
she was in pain. you no longer think she's crazy?
[shrugs defeatedly] you drank the manishewitz-flavored kool-aid.
that there's a rational basis for the irrational.
imaginary friends.
which debate is that metaphor supposed to help us with?
run an ep study of her heart. find where the wiring's verklempt.
went by your hotel this morning. they told me you moved out. moved in with cb?
the very fact that you're resisting my insight proves to me...
are we still speaking metaphorically?
hey. that's my best friend's girl you're talking about.
i was wrong.
she's not me. well she is me. but that's... not why she's attractive. she's a needy version of me.
you started seeing her right after i fired her.
[shakes his head] she told kutner it was four weeks.
you lied to me. there was money on the line.
you knew that i was right.
not to your libido.
i need you to sleep with wilson.
he's involved with... an inappropriate woman.
he's combined two of his worst qualities - his love for me and his love for need.
as administrator of this hospital you have to save your star oncologist.
wilson has a pattern with women. he saves them then he betrays them. which then causes guilt. which then causes him to go save somebody else. for example a hospital bureaucrat nearing forty who has no personal life. i suggest you go braless.
no. i really mean sleep with.
[argues] people don't change just because they wish they could.
[vo] she was supposed to sweat and she froze.
hypothermia caused the seizure. what caused the hypothermia?
body's doing the opposite of what it's supposed to. her body's wilson. how do we respond to that?
we do the opposite.
infection... means that something's been added to the body something that should be expelled. what's the opposite of that?
it fits. every symptom.
she's not a masochist she's suicidal. [sarcastically] nice work chase.
we need you.
so instead of a few days we now have a few hours to figure this out. [again] nice work chase.
saying nice work chase when you're not here is pointless.
seriously we need you.
malformations don't cause bloody urine.
better way of connecting to those years is to actually have them.
told you we needed you.
and you came.
[looking at the 'board] solve this case and the job is yours.
standard contract all employees sign.
for the same reason i believe that crack whores can have sex... for crack.
you've changed.
normal platelet count rules out dic. good try though.
would affect the lungs not the bladder.
the husband's blessing of his wife. he calls her eshet chayil.
[vo] woman of valor. strength and honor are her clothing. she laughs at the future...
... because she's an idiot.
she woulda had constipation. her value isn't beyond pearls either. 'cause dead people have no value.
[shooting his shot down] rbc count would be higher.
not the bloody urine. woman's not just a masochist she's a hypocrite.
[vo] the commandment to preserve life comes before all others.
[frustrated] right she walked in crazy and explained how ritual trumps living and you decide it's a beautiful lifestyle.
[vo] then the only meaning is here.
[grimly] then she dies.
things aren't where we want them to be just 'cause we want them to be there.
'course that doesn't mean they're where they should be.
hey! stop that jew!
chase hates working on shabbos. gonna make this easier for him. stand her up.
neither do i. stand her up.
you can tell all the ladies at the mikvah about this.
put your hand here. press hard.
you have nephroptosis. also known as floating kidney. [collecting his cane from the nurse] the kidney's like a chandelier.
[vo] it's attached to a ceiling of intestines and blood vessels. but your contractor - think you know who he is - he hung it with a cheap chain. it's been hanging sloppy for years.
[vo] finally something shook it loose.
after that every time you stood your kidney dropped a few centimeters caused all your symptoms.
because we do scans with patients lying down. she'd've been lying down in surgery too. we would never have found it. good chance she'd never come out.
ultrasound to confirm then tell chase to put the kidney back on the shelf. the bleed will be nearby.
mazel tov.
couple hours surgery you'll be ready to push out those fourteen children.
you do it both ways right?
[quickly] the ultrasound. you do it standing up and lying down.
[innocently] what else would i mean?
[sucks in air] i've decided you could do worse than a female proxy for me.
no.
nope.
if you do change can it be the part of you that chases me down halls trying to change me?
that you made one good dating choice. the fabric of the space/time continuum could unravel.
i'll sacrifice... a lab rat. i'll sacrifice a fly. i'll sacrifice two hundred on a mudder at monmouth park. i don't sacrifice self.
shabbat shalom wilson.
the place is a mess.
[doesn't take them.] it's not my fault i don't use nurses.
i know that's why i'm here. [goes and sits down.]
she's going to look everywhere except the place she wants me to be. [puts his feet up and starts to read a magazine. glances over at jeff who is sitting on the end of his bed smiling.] [to cameron.] hey.
what's with the idiot?
no. [cameron makes an 'of course' gesture and goes back to what she was doing.] [to jeff.] sir. why do you have two lunches in front of you?
and you're happy with that?
seriously? it's a very useful tool. [gets up and walks over to him.] complain you make people miserable. they do what you want to make the misery go away.
[to cameron.] is he canadian?
is that a yes?
happy. [jeff smiles.] i've got to stop this before it spreads. [house whistles. taub kutner thirteen and cameron all look towards house.] you guys are done. [taub kutner and thirteen start walking over cameron looks annoyed.]
could be a metabolic disorder toxic exposure carcinoma of the tongue metastasized to the brain epilepsy ms
okay you two are perfectly healthy. this guy wasn't pandering he wasn't vanilla nice he was nice without any aspiration for personal gain. i'm thinking genetic defect.
three cavemen see a stranger running towards them with a spear. one fights one flees one smiles and invites him over for fondue. that last guy didn't last long enough to procreate.
at least as long as his wife has known him 11 years.
what are you saying? that evolution is wrong? [scoffs.] where do you think we are 21st century america?
okay maybe i'm biased let's take a vote. who thinks that niceness is not a symptom? [everyone puts up their hand.] and who thinks that their vote counts? [house puts up his hand.] you two [points to foreman and kutner] check out his home for toxins. taub and thirty-one...
oh i'm sorry i thought that either way was good with you. taub and thirteen mri for tumors and eeg for nerve damage. test whatever comes out of him for everything else.
again.
again. [washes the pill down with some beer.]
no it wasn't. no it isn't. i didn't invite you to be nice i invited you because bowling isn't one of the two things guys do by themselves.
other hand. [bowls a gutter ball.]
ah the ontological proof of niceness. the existence of the word proves the existence of the concept. look out for those minotaurs on your drive home.
i wish the best for them and their tragically deformed children. [bowls his second shot but we don't see the result house doesn't look too pleased though]
well as long as i give it my best shot i can hold my head high.
that's amazing. cameron only has one insufferable friend? [chase bowls another strike. turns around and house is gone.]
joint custody.
unless we have another love child?
he needs a mother figure. i'm not saying you're not entitled to spend time with him i'm just saying i'm entitled too. [amber looks at wilson again.]
the man knows me.
it's actually a very touching moment. i'm proposing i get every other day and every other weekend.
mondays and wednesdays and midnight.
wilson? make a ruling.
i'll let you sniff first.
take my deal or i move in. [sits down.]
[to cuddy.] you are king solomon. if you want us to cut him in half we're cool with that.
and covertly. [cuddy looks at him.] but i suppose you didn't know about that.
that top makes you look like an afghani prostitute... would be an example of that.
it can wait. [to cuddy] i will sign if you will give us a ruling.
i'd be happy to continue the mockery of this process. [sign's the review.]
yes. wednesday nights are ladies' nights at cheetah's.
wow. it really could wait.
and you thought it wouldn't be.
doesn't mean his calcium should be low.
lower not low.
lower than yesterday. yesterday might have been high what's lower than high?
so what gives us elevated calcium bad taste and fainting?
get the team. this is going to be fun. [house walks off.]
hello again. these people think you are not too nice.
for life as we know it to have evolved without an intelligent designer. i'm going to prove them wrong. your wife... is very ugly.
i think i just did. you're either perfect or you're sick. in my experience sick is much more common.
nice in the sense that your toaster is nice for making you breakfast. it's the only thing his wiring will let him do. [to taub kutner and thirteen.] he has william's syndrome. [back to deb.] your husband is missing the genes that make him suspicious.
relax there's no cure. he's going to go right on tasting lemon meringue pie fainting and being a sap.
he has no other symptoms.
he's got the teeth glasses.
he doesn't work in the physics department. except when they spill a black hole on their carpet.
yeah he's more legolas than keebler but i bet you he can still crack off a batch of pecan sandies.
[to jeff.] you love to karaoke right?
modest another symptom...
give us a warble. you know any cher?
not a moment too soon.
why do people say that with such pleasure? it's very hurtful you know?
it's the way he said it. he wasn't relieved he was excited. [very happily.] he was also wrong and i say that with no sense of pleasure.
you. [points at kutner.] have a friendly demeanor but you sometimes get too involved. you relate well to your peers and patients and you complete tasks in a timely manner. [grabs a piece of paper and puts it in front of kutner.] please sign.
i have to give each of you performance reviews. [kutner looks at the paper still a little shocked.] plenty of other conditions can cause debilitating niceness.
i don't know. how's it supposed to help wilson? [to kutner.] cross out wilson's name and the date and then fill in your own...
i'm thinking neurosyphilis. wouldn't show up on the mri without contrast. [looks at kutner.]
because he doesn't know. that's why we do tests.
you want me to intimidate him into not being afraid? not sure i know how to do that.
i don't think that the right time to tell the dog not to pee on the rug is semi-annually.
i am concerned about the rainforest.
i know. [walks to his office.]
[gets up to open the door.] you're 15 minutes late! [house opens the door and its some guy in a suit standing there.]
[looks confused.] miley cyrus is playing a third night at the spectrum?
oh you're selling religion. i'm sorry i bought some islam yesterday. [lets amber and wilson in.]
you're late.
16 minutes my 16 minutes.
[to wilson.] you hear that? she doesn't care.
it matters because you don't get to decide what matters.
[rolls his eyes.] i had to take a dump. anything else i don't need to know before you leave? [opens the door.]
[shuts the door and looks at wilson.] daddy needs a drink. [walks off to get one wilson laughs.]
10:30.
i'll get you home before lights out. [pushes the drink closer to wilson who takes it.]
really? you'd think that one or more of your ex wives would have mentioned that to me.
because i'm your friend.
[answers.] hello and thank you for saving me from being righteoused to death. [gets up and walks away from wilson.]
don't put it on the board. [taub stops writing.]
i think it's my marker. [taub rubs what he had written off the board.] he has syph and what?
not everyone agrees.
if you all thought it was syph you wouldn't have woken me up in the middle of the night.
two more probablys than i like to hear.
full night actually. guy might not make it to brunch. [house hangs up the phone and walks back over to wilson.] yes i knew about your issue with alcohol. yes i intentionally got you drunk to provoke an argument between you and amber. why i would do such a thing is an interesting question. what's more interesting is that you knew as much as i did and you're the one who's pouring down the drinks. why?
[looks at them.] yes?
i'm multi-tasking. also doing my taxes. and cuddy. what'd you find out?
i assume from your omission of the word 'viral' before the hep that it's not another std. put him on steroids and test him for sarcoid before the liver failure becomes liver failed.
there's more?
[turns off the tv and turns to face them.] no i don't.
which one of you?
there's something i need to tell you.
on time.
on time. no tag backs.
so you didn't have sex?
well you can have it tonight. the l word is on.
if you terminate the agreement it's not going to bring peace in the mideast.
fine. whoever violates it gets their finger cut off.
so am i. you want people to drive safer take out the airbags and attach a machete pointing at their neck. no one will drive over three miles per hour.
we'll figure it out. on your time. [house opens the door. amber sighs kisses wilson goodbye and leaves. house shuts the door again and turns back to wilson.] you know she's certifiable right? i've got the forms in my desk.
nothing.
i needed to tell you something... privately.
you'll tell her. she's your girlfriend you should tell her.
it's not the same. [opens the door and starts to leave.]
where am i wrong? [shuts the door behind himself.]
critiquing the clap addled? that's sort of tasteless.
no i don't.
compared to those three?
i like cuddy. i like parts of her.
i want to empower them. those three idiots need to respect you. they should respect you they should be afraid of you so i have to humiliate you because if the team fears you they won't question you. if they don't question you they won't get any answers if they don't get any answers they're useless.
the hospital will probably build you a statue one day. you know with a 'kick me' sign on the back. so when you think about it the more i mock you the more it shows i have respect for you.
wouldn't rule that out completely.
almost done. [to foreman.] uh so just remember the rabbit goes around the tree and jumps down the hole. [ties his shoelaces up.]
run him for everything you can think of. lepto schisto hemo and the fourth marx brother nobody ever heard of.
or she scabbed. depends on your point of view. so what do we think? new symptom? or just a wife beater? [to kutner] hey time for you to take this baby for a spin. [throws the whiteboard marker to him kutner gets up looking pleased with himself. house takes his seat and moves it closer to thirteen.]
good news is he's running out of organs to fail.
at that rate by sundown he'll have eaten most of us.
so... syphilis prevents domestic violence. i'm going to be even more attractive to the ladies.
well they're all good ideas. [foreman raises an eyebrow.] okay let's take a vote. how many think it's the roids talking? [taub sticks up his hand.] and who's for the penicillin? [kutner] and how about whatever she said? [thirteen. house looks at foreman.] someone hasn't raised their hand.
[laughs.] why would i do that?
the pfo's have it. [everyone gives house a weird look.] i just hope the bubble test is positive or it's no more mr. nice guy. [everyone stares at house for a few more seconds before leaving.]
you know that thing i was going to tell you i've got to tell you. i've got to tell someone. you have to swear not to tell cb.
well that's not swearing that's shrugging. it's actually the opposite of swearing.
my team thinks that i have syphilis.
not yet.
because i knew that they had access to an old blood sample and i knew they'd test it sometime for something.
[rolls his eyes.] shut up you're missing the point. now they think that i'm on penicillin.
and as i get better i get nicer.
foreman thinks i actually value his opinion. [wilson laughs more.] thank god he said pfo or i'd have had to do some dancing. you got time for bowling? [wilson doesn't say anything.] come on it's work hours.
no.
yeah and you're going to keep talking about it. we are who we are.
is this some sort of recap?
oh! uh... i know this.
i was going to say that.
who?
get that idiotic smile out of my face. i've got to go on a killing spree.
[sighs.] it's not chagas.
is two a spree or do i have to kill you too? chagas wouldn't explain the niceness.
the mri showed no signs...
[looks at it.] it's plenty. you figured this out because i don't have syphilis? [kutner shrugs.] damn. that should have been my epiphany.
good news bad news. good news is we know what you have it's treatable you're going to live. [both deb and jeff smile.]
the cure is a grueling course of pills. it's like one a day for a month.
yeah like that's a challenge.
well not quite. your brain's been swollen not enough to see but enough to alter your personality.
he screamed at you you don't think he can change?
so you think drugs are more powerful than parasites? [realises that's exactly what they are about to give him.] i mean... the ones we're going to give you to treat the parasites obviously are but... i stand by the principle.
[shrugs.] neither am i but that's because i don't care.
it was brought to my attention that on occasion i am not respectful of hospital hierarchy. [sticks a lollypop in his mouth.]
because underneath it all we are all the same. and foreman refused to type his up.
there's an extra one in there.
foreman convinced me that these can be helpful.
you'd think i'd have noticed. what exactly did they do around here? [house picks up the review and continues from where cuddy left off.] you act like employees should fear and respect you but your eyes tell us... [looks up at cuddy.] actually your eyes tell us nothing because we're looking at your boobs. [goes back to reading.] which tell us that you're desperate to have someone jump on you and tell you they love you one grunted syllable at a time. what you want you run away from. what you need you don't have a clue. what you've accomplished makes you proud but you're still miserable. [hands it to her.] please sign.
she breached confidentiality. you can let it slide officer. we're even.
roll over. [patient rolls over with some help from amber.]
want to come over to the poopy side? where are you two going friday night?
[stares at her.] you're lying.
[driving the car] an autographed picture would be nice. oh and i'm also gonna save your life.
that's probably true seeing as how you have a brain tumor.
actually i'm the nut-job head of diagnostic medicine.
actually i do mind. i don't care if you die. but if brock sterling dies anna never finds out he's the father of marie's baby.
[stands echoing evan] help! we're gonna need a wheelchair here. [he ducks his head back into the car] look in the last month your average line reading has slowed from 2.1 seconds to 2.9. you're pausing more. always at the same intervals <U+0096> every seven to nine words. which means you're having trouble reading one side of the teleprompter. which means a peripheral vision problem. which means a tumor in your occipital lobe. just one test. if there's nothing wrong i'll take you right back home.
[tossing the keys to a passing employee] uh just put it in my spot.
it tells me where your blind spots are. so the twins they're gonna turn out to be yours aren't they.
but you want to be done with this right?
i knew it. [pumps his fist] julio knocked her up before her appendix burst. you got her after.
cause it's awesome.
as opposed to shows that represent the world exactly the way it is like i can't think of any.
hospital is being inspected and cuddy dispatched you to keep an eye on me. [pause] i just parked a town car in an ambulance bay and instead of ripping me one cuddy acted like she didn't know me. it's either an inspection or an aneurysm.
as i suspected you have significant losses in the upper right quadrant of your visual field.
no it's a joke. two guys go into a bar and one has significant losses in the upper right quadrant of his visual field. and the other one says you're gonna need an mri to confirm the type and location of the tumor.'
no it doesn't.
i kidnapped you. you're surprised that i lied to you? [evan jumps out of the chair and grabs his jacket] it just means that the symptoms are intermittent.
it's sweet that i haven't lost the ability to surprise you.
are you mocking me?
don't care. busy.
well that sucks. don't buy a new one. [he takes a syringe from a drawer locks the cart grabs his cane and turns to leave. wilson follows]
she's incapable of doing anything that matters without turning it into a zero-sum game.
wow. i'm faster than you right now. [he uses his cane to push open an elevator door before it shuts. evan is in the elevator. he turns away from house and pulls out his phone.] it's all about her and whatever hapless salesman wanders into her sights. she's gonna lie steal and trade your testes to get whatever she wants. hold on. i just gotta do something before he dials the second 1.' [he uncaps the syringe and injects evan in the back of the neck.] you're going to end up humiliated [evan drops to the floor] holding her purse and going home to sleep on a new mattress you hate.
he needs an mri.
give me one millimeter slices from the cortex down.
[trying on evan's sunglasses] guy has a history of violent outbursts during surgical procedures.
increase the magnification on the occipital lobe. you watch because you like or because i like?
bzzt. sorry. that's not an answer that's an apology. if we're ever to come out of the darkness we have to be proud <U+0096>
he's fine?
see if you can talk him out of suing me.
it gets a lot narrower when you add in peripheral vision problems.
but it doesn't make sense to include the symptom that he caused in a differential he's so desperate to solve.
stick to the filing sweetheart. let the doctors do the doctoring. either toxins or a vitamin deficiency <U+0096>
kutner leave the room. wait thirty minutes come back and tell her the test was negative.
get out of here.
they're busy. which is really annoying because i wanted to be able to say they're busy for no other reason than to screw with you. [he picks a tape out of a plastic carton he just dropped on the table and shows it to her] research.
you can't tell me you didn't notice that pause.
ah this is a whole new experience in super high def. i had no idea marie wore an underwire.
could be demylenation from toxic exposure.
keep watching. you'll never guess what rico's got in that box.
you want the star of the hottest daytime drama on tv to die in your hospital?
i can't do my job if you're going to tie my hands like that.
i want that tv.
you want something. either you're bargaining or you're begging.
yes but it's better for you. i just want us to be equally happy.
or a toxin.
or a toxin.
might not be. we'll know after i'm finished searching his set and dressing room for medically relevant stuff. gotta go. need a decision.
yeah that sounds like me. [to kutner] test for heavy metals organics biotoxins and search the home.
pack your manhood on ice. maybe the hospital can reattach it.
you choose does not mean you choose.
it's a trap. it means if you love me you'll buy the one i want. [he grabs a handful of shelled sunflower seeds from a large container popping them into his mouth while continuing the conversation.]
people who do aggressive don't like to limit themselves. could a leaky space heater cause vision problems and numbness?
did i hear a question mark at the end of that sentence?
gotta go. [hangs up]
no. you're not going to marry brock are you? we've been waiting four years for him to make it official with anna.
glioblastoma. need more proof? so no toxins on the set how about his regular life? unusual hobbies? unsavory friends?
and by out you mean?
too small or too large?
i'm a doctor and it's relevant to me. so yes.
[thinks and looks at the seeds in his hand] now that'd be interesting.
he's impotent. [he takes a packet from his pocket and tosses it on the table] steady diet of sunflower seeds causes a b6 toxicity which causes an autonomic disregulation which causes a wood-free existence.
it's more than just one. he can't even remember the last time he was able to salute. it's cool huh?
so all we have to do is filter the b6 out of his blood. prep him for plasmapheresis.
[looks around] and can you find out where that voice keeps coming from? and tell it to get out of my head.
confirmation is for wimps and altar boys. we don't need to wait for a reflex. if he can't get engorged the way god intended he can't get engorged.
lack of response to your chest tells us nothing. thirteen show him [exhales loudly] where can i find a decent set of knockers around here?
in that case it could be an atypical bunion.
you want to be here.
just say the word. i'll fire thirteen.
smart move. i was bluffing. she's right. we should fry the thyroid before it fries him.
if that gland has drawn a bulls eye on his heart then no.
[whispers] we? [aloud] anyone else want to run a useless test while brock's thyroid plots its next lethal move? [thirteen raises her hand. kutner and taub follow] it was rhetorical.
seriously? i mean i am but you think so?
just grabbing a snack.
well if i keep it in the lounge everyone else eats it.
oh. i thought it was just everyone else's bags.
they're not going to find out. unless of course conway planned on inspecting the morgue in say two minutes. [feigning ignorance] is that why you're here?
no. over a tv. and you're not gonna get fired because you're gonna fold.
but you're gonna push it. so we need a safe word. so you can signal your unconditional surrender. [conway enters] call me sweet sauce. [he smiles at conway and shakes his hand] dr. house. i don't think we've met.
most people have. it's also a noun. [pause] i sometimes come down here to relax unwind. maybe grab a <U+0096>
it's a nickname.
oh yeah. yeah. cause those sick blind kids aren't going to read to themselves. see ya. [almost out the door he turns back] i recommend skipping c-26. floater. been in the river at least a week.
any time. [leaves]
nope. they've got a 12 inch exactly like the one that used to be in here.
i'll be doing a dance of joy just as soon as my leg is healed. [to the maintenance men] can you tilt that down?
i had to. in the name of science. i let the crap pile up and i see which team member is the most self-flagellating <U+0096> breaks down clears up the mess. surprise was it turned out to be you. again. and you weren't even registered as a competitor. you miss me.
yeah yeah yeah. all pretty girls are fungible. you're avoiding.
seriously. i'll fire thirteen. or kutner if you think thirteen is hot.
i told you to nuke his thyroid.
so your test screwed me and our patient's kidneys. you practically poisoned him with iodine.
must be the rancid tinge of betrayal that's put me off.
[turning on him] so tell me to my face. you never hesitated before. the board's turned you into a coward.
you did it to pass an inspection.
you're right. you and the team go measure the ceilings.
accreditation board guidelines state that no object can be less than 18 inches from the ceiling. make sure we're in compliance.
i don't mean us. i mean the whole hospital.
you made it to page 8. mysterious hospital visit for soap doc.
that's what we're here to find out.
are you really as miserable as everyone seems to think you are?
nothing matters. we're all just cockroaches wildebeests dying on the river bank. nothing we do has any lasting meaning.
if you're unhappy on the plane jump out of it.
mmm. that's the problem with metaphors. they need interpretation. jumping out of a plane is stupid.
that's the other problem with metaphors. yes what if you're actually on an ice cream truck and outside are candy and flowers and virgins. you're on a plane! we're all on planes. life is dangerous and complicated and it's a long way down.
no you're afraid to change. you'd rather imagine that you can escape instead of actually try. cause if you fail then you got nothing. so you'll give up the chance of something real so you can hold onto hope. the thing is hope is for sissies.'
too many. half the people i save don't deserve a second chance.
you realize you're reciting lines from last season?
cooling blankets in here. this guy's brain is about to boil. [he returns to the bedside. he snaps his fingers twice to get evan's attention] do you know where you are? what's your name?
good news is the last time brock was in a coma he fathered two children.
test him for fungi parasites all creatures great and small.
to lie down. i need to think.
could be rat bite fever. but his glands aren't swollen. which one are you gonna get?
so get it. listeria explains the sepsis possibly also the heart problem.
if the listeria caused encephalomyelitis which then caused the numbness.
wow.
i'm ignoring you because you make me sad. he's on ampicillin. which means if it's listeria he would have shown some improvement.
who cares? you wanted one your whole life. you're a grown up. you can afford it. stores sell them.
you don't deserve to be happy.
it is stupid. [he puts down the pillow and starts to leave] live the dream wilson.
it's not an infection. it's an allergy. that's why it's not responding to antibiotics.
especially if we give them the wrong drugs. what'd the tests say?
the more infections we rule out the more likely it is that it's not an infection.
allergens could trigger an allergic vasculitis. that would explain the symptoms.
but an infection is never resistant to every antibiotic.
and allergy never responds to antibiotics. never beats rarely. qed i won. there were chrysanthemums in his dressing room.
chrysanthemums contain pyrethrins a neurotoxin and a know allergen.
he has an allergy. if we don't give him steroids we'll kill him.
fast enough. we don't have time for the rest of the tests. we have to do something. and what we're doing right now isn't working.
a hundred milligrams methylprednisilone.
it's one patient.
perfect. the patient's in a '69 ford coma.
i am 99% certain that she'll consent. [he heads behind the counter] for the sake of the 1% why don't i just
well tell the inspector he can put it on my tab.
i didn't mean now.
we were wrong about the infection. he's suffering from a severe allergic reaction.
in rare cases trust me. at the end of this conversation i'm right.
what is it about this severe and deepening coma that makes you think we got time for protocol?
if you think i'm wrong tell me i'm wrong. don't talk about protocol.
okay. here's what you do. you wait three minutes then you call security. by the time they get here and lock me up i'll be done. he gets to live and your ass gets to be covered.
to what?
i was wrong. [to cuddy] you should have stopped me. [he leaves]
don't hang up. what was the verdict?
you should have been fired.
there are bubbles in his glass.
my patient is allergic to quinine. [cuddy turns on the light and sits up.]
the symptoms started two months ago. it's also when brock started downing gin and tonics like a brit staving off malaria. the gin was fake. the tonic was real.
you should've been fired.
i saved his life.
the contract clearly stated no takesy backsides.
what are you wearing.
good night cuddy.
uh...i don't know.
[house sees a very short flashback of someone bleeding.] i don't know how i got here. [exhales into his hand and smells his breath.] how many drinks did i have?
that means i was drunk when i got here. [looks at his watch.] 8:50. [thinks.] i remember being at work. i've lost at least four hours. [to the dancer.] say five words.
that's four words. the accepted diagnostic test for global memory impairment is five random words.
i'm...[dancer sits on his lap.] trying to find that out. give me five... animals.
[closes his eyes.] monkey rhino... [grabs his head.] either i'm massively drunk <U+0096> [looks at blood on fingertips.]
or it's someone else's blood. do you see a wound? [dancer winces as she looks at his scalp.] how bad is it?
i have a concussion. retrograde amnesia. [pats his pockets.] i have no keys no phone. i've been mugged.
did you earn it?
someone is going to die.
not you. i saw something a symptom. someone is going to die unless i find them.
i have no idea. keep the change.
i saw somebody dying.
i saw a symptom before the crash.
bad argument. since i was right about that.
[pulls away.] ow!
why was i taking the bus?
what if i saw someone and i followed them on from... somewhere in princeton?
perfect. uh...uh...you. [points to taub.] get histories from everyone in here.
no. [to thirteen] lesbian. find out if anybody on that bus was taken to other hospitals.
no thirteen. i just wanted to call you a lesbian.
i was rounding up from 50%. [to kutner] find my cane and motorcycle. figure out where i went last night.
you're going to trust me? i lie about everything. [the three of them leave.]
how much bigger could it get?
what if it's not a coincidence?
that... or the symptom caused the crash. [looks around.] did you see anybody in a bus driver's uniform?
right here. purpura on ralph klamden's neck indicative of leukaemia. caused a bleed in the brain and hence the accident.
no we just ruled that out pay attention. [to wilson] he probably had a seizure.
which you drove into while you were seizing.
hey! [house walks over to one of the crash victims being wheeled out in a wheelchair by a nurse.] nobody leaves here until i say they can be discharged.
is she me? [feels his forehead.] you have a fever.
i need him to stay.
stiff neck. [yells to everyone in the er.] this man has meningitis. we need to quarantine the whole er. no one leaves here until their full workup is complete.
well that covers ten seconds out of the four hours i can't remember. where else did you look?
[looking through the files.] it would be helpful if these came with head shots and resumes.
both of which are expected complications when someone goes from 60 to 0 in no seconds flat.
okay new plan. we make a list of all the bars between here and the crash site. find out where i went we go there <U+0096>
you're not going to do anything are you?
someone is dying because i can't remember <U+0096>
you're not doing to make me do the chicken dance are you?
[lying back with his eyes closed.] so what you saw an ad on the back of a comic book?
this is a waste of... [suddenly house is on the bus which is empty.] time. [looks around.] cool. [chase appears on the bus in front of him.]
the bus is empty. [house suddenly sees a hand waving in front of him. we are back in houses office and we see that wilson is waving his hand in house's face who is just staring straight ahead.]
[looks around.] i can't see out the windows and i can see you guys.
i need a reason? [looks to his right and wilson is sitting next to him.] god i hate 'beer' brand beer.
i can be mistaken but i can't actually lie under hypnosis. [continues drinking.]
when i'm drinking without you? what am i running away from? hmm one of those imponderables. can you hold off on your insecurities until we find this patient?
[looks around sees some people playing pool some just drinking all of them have no faces.] i see a faceless crowd. how do i focus? say something to make me focus. [amber appears in the corner.]
[to wilson] will you get your girlfriend out of here?
you put her in my head. i can't even have a conversation with you in my subconscious without her tagging along.
[sighs] unfortunately. [pause] i didn't mean to say that out loud.
i didn't say it out loud? nothing.
[to chase] if i can't lie i need these two out of here.
i wish it were that <U+0096> [notices that wilson and amber have disappeared.] that's some program they got down there in melbourne. [he picks up a fluted glass of what looks like champagne.] cheers. [house looks up as he raises his glass and sees the bartender.] i remember the bartender.
he seems fine. [looks around] anybody here sick? anyone here taking the bus?
[looks at the bartender again.] because... you took my keys.
[back on the bus. he can see all the passengers.] passengers.
some emo guitar hero wannabe.
[emo guy picks his nose.] because nose picking could mean nasal pruritus. he's dying.
[to emo guy.] you a nose picker?
if the answer was no you would have answered. tilt your head back.
you have a brain tumour.
if i was kidding i'd be dressed like you.
go home. have fun. relax. i'm probably just a nut case. [emo guy looks at cuddy.]
[looks in emo guy's nose sees nothing of interest.] you can get your things and go.
your legs are not your biggest problem. your biggest problem is... i don't know what your biggest problem is.
so we have the who but not the what.
we actually have two symptoms.
[makes some weird arm movements everyone looks at him.] i'm just trying to figure out what guillain-barr<e9> looks like.
how about because it doesn't match what i could have seen? guillain-barr<e9> has no external physical manifestations.
to smell a bus obviously. [taub thirteen and kutner follow him out. foreman stays behind.]
smell is the most powerful evokerater of memory. [takes a couple of vicodin.] i need to get back on that bus.
if cuddy asks blocking the pain helps focus the memory.
a hint of... exploded bus. [takes another couple of vicodin.]
[dumping all the clothes onto the table.] wish me luck. i'm going in. rambo style. [slams his head down in the clothes.]
[stands up again and now he's back on the bus.] both apparently.
so you're saying i'm not here. [walking towards the bus driver.]
okay. so i went a little heavy on the vicodin.
we're both in my head. you'd think one of us would have noticed the blood.
who do you want me to treat? me or you? did you have a seizure?
dumb answer. i wasn't asking you i was asking me. because you've already proven that you're not here.
is that a clue?
you weren't on the bus.
five hundred dollar shoes. not on a princeton cross-town.
yes. what do you have to tell me? [wilson slaps his hand on house's shoulder bringing him back to the present. house is annoyed.] i was talking to the passengers on the bus!
if you haven't found the bleed yet it can't be <U+0096>
very little.
i wanted to see her naked.
i want to see her naked.
[laughs.] well some guys get upset when you objectify their girlfriends. but if you're okay i've got a digital video camera. so we could <U+0096>
trust me. i want to do some very nasty demeaning stuff to your girlfriend.
i banged my head.
i'll rest once i've figured out what's wrong with this guy.
i don't know.
recovery's too fast.
which means it's not transverse myelitis.
wouldn't explain the paralysis. addison's from a tumour. it's possible that i saw his eyelids droop.
a little thing called a bus crash. it's just a scalp laceration. it could be hidden in his optic chiasm.
[ignores foreman.] but that would have affected his eyesight. i need to take a bath.
hypnosis gave me a nose picker. smells set off hallucinations. sensory deprivation should get the brain into an alpha-theta phase. [hands the rest of the salt to thirteen and then takes off his shirt.] didn't you see altered states?
well then you're too young to be a doctor. that movie was released in 1980.
no it wasn't shut up.
no. i just remembered how old i am. [gets into the tank.] i need to give my brain time to transition so i can embrace my inner monkey. or maybe i don't. give me some physostigmine. it crosses the blood-brain barrier.
don't do anything. even if i escape. eat a goat. get shot by police <U+0096>
i used to drive home after getting drunk but some mothers got mad-d. what are you doing here? you weren't on the bus with me.
if it's a fantasy you'd be wearing... this. [cuddy clothes suddenly change to a much skimpier outfit.]
don't blame me. blame my gender.
why can't you do both?
[house smiles as he watches cuddy.] from behind i saw his earlobes wiggling. or his head bobbing. [cuddy takes off her top and drops it on house's face. house sits stunned for a few seconds and then takes it off his face as cuddy gives him a nice look at her ass.] but not that.
marfan's syndrome.
what if his earlobes were just drooping?
or cutis laxa.
yeah yeah yeah. he's an adult very good point. keep going. [she holds her bra up and turns around to house again who is leaning forward watching very closely.]
[screams.] no! dance woman!
i screamed no.
tell me what i saw.
that doesn't make sense. because your shirt wasn't stained. and because that was me. [house's ear starts bleeding.]
huntington's wouldn't explain the abdominal pain. and it's only on the table because we're thinking of thirteen.
except there's no such thing as shuffling sitting.
[turns around and walks over to her.] who are you?
at what?
[to mystery woman.] you were right. [turns around and is suddenly blinded with light which brings him back to the present as foreman cuddy wilson and thirteen open the lid to the tank.]
[jumps up.] i got it! it's parkinson's.
start him on levodopa.
get that out of my face.
i don't need your name. and i got your profession from your super competent technique of melting my retinas.
i remember puking on cuddy's shoes. [turns his head.] ow.
it'd hurt a lot less if you didn't swipe my pain pills.
[sees a security guard standing near the door.] wait a second you brought muscle?
means i was wrong. my patient doesn't have parkinson's. cuddy knows that's the only reason i wouldn't want to stay here with my pain pills porn and you forever. [tries to sit up nurse dickerson pushes him back down.]
[lying on his couch using his mobile.] how did you eliminate parkinson's?
i assume you've already ruled out hepatitis and wilson's.
then if she's wrong that makes this phone call that much more exciting. what about hepatic fibrosis?
did i mention this diagnosis needs to make sense?
if he got paralysed while driving the bus don't you think i would have gotten off at the next stop?
the bus would have slowed i would have noticed <U+0096>
genetic test is too slow. [nurse takes phone away from him so he yells out.] run the bagel test!
[in his bathroom using a different phone.] so the carbo-loading marathon isn't working. [kutner looks around surprised.] stop looking around suspiciously. to answer your next two questions no i am not there and yes you are completely predictable. if the test had worked you would have called to put my delicate brain at ease. [nurse knocks on the bathroom door.]
[yells out.] still wiping! [to kutner.] put the phone up to bus driver's grill. [kutner does as he's told and house listens to the bus driver's breathing.]
my large colon. [to kutner.] tpp is not consistent with your patient's laboured breathing.
my large colon did. i'm negotiating its release.
what's happening?
you're half right. he's wheezing isn't he?
you can't wheeze without moving your chest muscles. this isn't tpp.
well how am i supposed to know? i'm not there! [hangs up the phone.]
so why haven't you pushed a vial of tpa?
at the tail end of me patiently explaining how you idiots were idiots.
that means it's not a clot.
must have just screwed up the intubation. [checks the tube.] seal's good.
wait wait. [they stop.] look at his teeth. he's got shiny new caps. he's had recent dental surgery.
house! [turns around and sees thirteen standing there.] oh. [to thirteen] get a syringe.
listen to me. [she stops.] dental air drill pushed an air bubble into his gums. dislodged while he was driving and caused a myoclonic jerk. that's what i must have seen. then it hit his spine his liver and now his lungs. [moves the pillows from his head and sticks them under his feet.]
i'm not plumping his pillows here. i'm putting him in the trendelenburg position to move the bubble to the apex of his heart so you can suck it out now get the damn syringe.
stab him.
see? she doesn't even know your name. [yells.] stab his heart! [machines start beeping.]
yes he's suffocating.
shut up and make a decision. you keep standing there he's dead either way.
[holds up his hands.] don't shoot!
the other nurse always used to tuck me in.
worrying about me?
i'm not sleepy mummy.
who are you? and why are you stalking me?
[looks at her necklace which is a yellow orangey colour with something in it.] what is that? mosquito?
in the ointment. so there's something wrong. there's some detail i'm not noticing that's spoiling the big picture.
is this significant? or is this dream just going in a different direction now?
[house looks his hand which has a red ribbon in it.] i have to tie this around you. [ties it around her leg.]
stay with me. why did i say that? [blood starts to ooze onto the ribbon.]
hey.
it's not over. [she turns around and looks at him.] i saved the wrong person. [she sits up.]
this wasn't just a dream or a fantasy or a drug-induced trip to wonderland.
nope. i got the causation flipped. the bubble didn't cause the crash. the crash caused the bubble to dislodge. there was no myoclonic jerk. i saw something else in someone else.
what's the most dangerous thing a patient could do when his brain is on the brink of herniating?
instead of sleeping i'm going to be pacing around this apartment trying to decipher those visions.
i don't know. heart rate?
bp? [she walks away and grabs a stethoscope.] contextual memory. i need to get back on that bus with all 31 passengers to remember who and what i saw.
maybe i don't need the actual victims.
who's playing anne mckeehan? [cameron raises her hand.] right here. jane doe #2 from princeton general. [hadley.] right here. you two that's right. goth kid. [points to where to sit kutner sits there.] yeah. [foreman walks up to house.] at the back on the right. [foreman sits.] yeah. here. [everyone is now in their places.] okay...
well if only you'd stop talking the re-enactment could stimulate activity in my hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex.
it just slipped away. [takes some pills.]
nope. just a little memory pick-me-up.
that's the point. it'll speed up my neuronal firing. turn up the voltage on my memory.
just now? or including the ones i took on the ride over?
[looks to his right and sees the mystery woman sitting facing him. she is wearing a red scarf now.] why are you here?
you have something to tell me.
that's asking not telling. who are you?
if i did i'd be passed out in bed instead of od'ing on physostigmine on the 6th street cross-town.
[looks down at the necklace.] resin.
i don't know. why the guessing game?
and if i don't you don't. but you know the clues.
[looks at the necklace again realises and whispers.] no.
[shakes his head.] doesn't make sense.
amber.
i have to tie this around you. [removes the red scarf from around her neck and uses it as a tourniquet around her right leg.]
stay with me. just stay with me.
amber.
amber. it was amber. [tries to sit up cuddy helps his head onto her lap.] she was on the bus.
have you spoken to her?
i don't know... jane doe #2.
she was on the bus with me. she's the one who's dying.
[vo] i don't know how i got here. i saw a symptom before the crash.
why was i taking the bus?
someone is dying because i can't remember.
[vo] it was amber.
she was on the bus with me. she's the one who's dying.
sure it wasn't the bus that landed on her?
delayed reaction to the trauma. she lost both her kidneys in the bus crash. she ripped up her femoral artery.
check her potassium?
pushed adenosine?
coronary angiography?
we're fifteen minutes away from princeton plainsboro by ambulance.
she's hemodynamically stable. we're moving her.
[looking towards wilson] her husband can.
[loudly for wilson to play along] right?
if the trauma didn't damage her heart...
i don't know. if she had any underlying condition the accident could have exacerbated it.
[shouts] i don't know! i'm not hiding anything. i just don't remember. what else could damage her heart?
wilson don't get lost! i'm barely coherent. i need your help right now.
v-fib!
charging.
clear.
you wanna freeze her? her heart's not beating.
this is not a solution. all you're doing is pressing pause.
cold saline solution.
bought us time to think.
the trauma must have stimulated a pre-existing heart condition.
[gives her a healthy dose of frustrated sarcasm] great! let's explore that. quick get her on panacea.
[berating] yeah we get it. her heart's not beating. it's gonna make it harder to diagnose. on the other hand she's not gonna die while you're whining about it. what else?
[to kutner] i had a heart attack this morning. can't do any more drugs till lunch. get her an angiogram. could show damage even in a stopped heart. rest of you search her apartment. toxins heavy metals drugs anything that might make her heart race.
[looks around in mock-concern] is this a philanderers anonymous intervention?
i left here on my motorcycle alone.
[gets a file out of the drawer] i was not having an affair with her.
i lost four hours not four months.
can't really say yes when it's a hallucination asking.
what symptom did i see in you? a myoclonic jerk...
an incredibly rare neurological symptom is boring? am i in someone else's subconscious?
was i meeting you for a drink?
electricity.
i know i saw the symptom. i know the memory's locked in my brain. now i know how to get it.
[frowns] you don't even know what i'm talking about.
deep brain stimulation. it's been proven. electrical impulses applied directly to the hypothalamus could evoke detailed memories.
[dismissive] random spikes are common.
the team has found something. can you ask her if we can be excused?
what?
did you know that she was hiding them in her vitamins?
[thinks] test her heart without starting it. crack her chest open reach a finger inside the pulmonary vein run it across the valve.
it is if we're wrong.
if the valve is calcified that's our answer. that's our cure. go.
thirteen. who found the diet pills?
you didn't even go in the bathroom did you? you're suddenly mute in the differentials. a blow-up doll would be more useful. and yes that's the first time i've ever implied something negative about a blow-up doll.
[interrupts] normally i'd be fascinated. today don't care. get over whatever it is and do your job.
does amber drink sherry?
i had a dream. she was pouring me a glass. and since i'm a scotch- beer- gin- and rum-man...
sherry means something.
if she did drink sherry it would mean nothing. since she doesn't my subconscious is obviously trying to make some other point.
[getting up] wilson's right. we need to make her colder.
[getting his coat] not on in. fill in her lungs with slurry.
taking wilson out for a drink.
[looks around] maybe.
did you see me here with a-a tall blonde woman?
did she seem sick?
did you see the color of the sputum?
[looking at wilson then back at the bartender venomously] she's not my girlfriend genius.
[to wilson] blood in the sputum could mean parasites. any recent travel?
[points his cane at the bartender] if he had a brain he wouldn't be tending bar.
sneezing's a new symptom. let's assume the runny nose means an infection.
tell me that the liver biopsy showed infiltrates minor inflammation.
snot on a napkin. add the heart infiltrates...
start her on iv interferon. i'll go tell wilson.
[whining] oh god. i get less rest when i'm asleep.
i'm sorry. if i had known i would have started a breakaway jewish sect. hep b fits.
why are you doing that?
turn her over.
which she might not need once you turn her over. small of her back.
look closer.
either i'm still asleep or i'm starting to remember.
wouldn't speed up her heart.
yes the symptom that i saw on the bus was a rare interferon allergy that flares up two days before you take it.
i don't know. maybe she leaned over.
thirteen stick a needle in there. if there's pus foreman's right.
i'm not asking you to stick a needle all the way through. taub you do it.
[yelling] no apparently you can't!
allow eight hours for the antibiotics to take effect then we warm her up shock her heart.
run the blood cultures. after we get confirmation then we'll restart her heart.
[politely yet sternly] i said run the blood cultures.
sorry. wide stance.
why are you screwing up?
did you hate her?
's not guilt. that just leaves fear. young woman dying. young doctor dying in fact. that sound familiar?
by not getting tested? dealing with it by not dealing with it. it's clearly working beautifully.
my grandson gave me a mug that says that. okay. enough hand-holding. deal with it. get back in there. or pack up your stuff.
[to himself] inside voices.
autoimmune fits best. crash trauma could've set it off. start her on prednisone then we'll warm her up again. [sits]
that's not a good argument. it's not an argument at all. i'm sorry.
and it's gonna be. taub's starting the treatment. we're doing everything...
but there's no reason. we know the symptom we know what i saw.
you think i should risk my life to save amber's.
[vo] can't hear him.
everything's in black and white.
[to chase] you're supposed to be jolting my hypothalamus not petting it.
as long as i'm risking my life i might as well be watching a talkie.
hey! you take my keys you gotta give me a phone call.
dial-a-wilson.
i told her to find you. have you pick me up.
[rolls his eyes] i said to find wilson.
[shakes her head] not yet.
whoa. [calls the bartender] need another round! and a drink for... what passes for a lady around here? [to amber] what's your poison?
[imitating her] we're leaving leaving leaving leaving... [remembers] cosmos. i remember wilson buying cranberry juice. [to the bartender] i'll have another. and she'll have a cosmopolitan.
drink your drink or i'll drink 'em both.
[to the bartender] hey! we need another cosmo here.
she sneezed.
looks like snot. seems like a cold.
[softly] no.
think i paid?
go home. i'll take the bus.
hi.
you don't give up do you?
you doing this for me or for wilson?
[jerks a nod] well then it's even more impressive. [holds out an imaginary glass] salut.
i got a sleeve. i got two actually.
[shakes his head] no. it would explain the rash but nothing else. [looks downward] unless...
[softly] don't do it.
it wasn't the flu. it's what she did for it. she has amantadine poisoning.
amantadine binds with proteins. dialysis can't clear it out of the blood.
there's nothing we can do.
[to wilson morosely] i'm so sorry.
[eyes growing wide] amber.
you're dead.
am i dead?
should be.
because life shouldn't be random. because lonely misanthropic drug addicts should die in bus crashes and young do-gooders in love who get dragged out of their apartment in the middle of the night should walk away clean.
[shrugs] no well i'm branching out from self-loathing and self-destruction. [beat] wilson is gonna hate me.
he's my best friend.
i could stay here with you.
i can't.
because... [beat smirks sadly] because it doesn't hurt here. i let it... i don't wanna be in pain. i don't wanna be miserable. and i don't want him to hate me.
