no fever means it's not a tropical disease.
why is everyone leaping to conclude a strong career woman's been made sick by her strong career? it's not b12 it's an insulinoma in her pancreas. it's making her hypoglycemic.
hallucinations anemia bradycardia —
i don't have huntington’s.
if it's none of your business then i shouldn't have to answer these questions. and i wouldn't have to except house doesn't want to answer questions about wilson. he's deflecting his own problems onto me.
time for the b12 cocktail and my life lesson.
[enters] i need you back in bed.
yeah whenever i lose some shut-eye i pound my legs clawing at imaginary ant colonies. you have a severe b12 deficiency. get back in bed. [lou gets in bed. thirteen gives her an injection.] i'm sure your boss can do without you for a few days.
yeah i mean without you who knows how much starch they'd put in her shirts? [lou looks annoyed as thirteen picks up and drops a laundry ticket from lou’s bed table.] i'm sorry i'm sure your boss depends on you for —
no you need to stay in bed.
it's okay b12 deficiency can cause sudden — [she lifts the sheet. there’s blood everywhere.] that's not a bowel movement.
[enters] sorry patient's got a rectal bleed.
we need you to —
it doesn't bother you that house wouldn't take just two seconds to talk about the patient?
and our patient may be dying.
her heart rate's slow—bleed should have made it faster.
yeah? that the way it works around here? we get cut slack while we deal with personal issues?
ordered but it shouldn't show anything the endoscopy didn’t.
guess she does have a life beyond her career.
must be hard to have a real relationship when you —
i'm just saying it's understandable.
the ultrasound shows no trace of a baby at all.
positive pregnancy test no pregnancy.
choriocarcinoma — would’ve triggered pregnancy hormones.
[in doorway with the other fellows] uh we have a patient.
i'm sorry this is obviously a terrible time —
rectal bleeding two positive pregnancy tests.
hallucinations. heart won't respond —
[entering] this is dr. house. he's too brilliant for introductions. [to house] false positive.
false positive.
what if she wants to keep the baby?
what we can't take two seconds to discuss this? i mean fetuses have been transplanted before. whole uteruses too.
she's a 37-year-old woman who deserves —
you told me to get tested.
you didn't think a death sentence would —
i'm sorry to be so definitive about this. i know you're still absorbing the news but we have no choice.
she's in weak shape. spleen's friable. it could rupture.
she's got a neurological problem.
her heart's not recovering either.
pulse is down to 39. she's maxed out on atropine. we're installing a pacing wire to... [lou passes out] …avoid that. we need some help in here!
we can do this without him. maybe something happened during the surgery.
ms. if a lesion took out the sympathetic innervation of her heart it'd explain the bradycardia and the blinking.
house is gone and so are those symptoms. ms explains everything that’s wrong with her right now.
he's not feeling well.
we work as a team. you know how it is. collaborative. sometimes it's hard to tell where an idea comes from.
and you work for patty. i'm sure a lot of her ideas are actually —
maybe if you just had the chance. i'm… i'm sure you’ve learned a lot.
yes. [lou shivers audibly.] did you just shiver? [she feel’s lou’s forehead.] you're running a slight fever.
it means we were wrong about the ms.
the timing fits.
if bacteria entered her bloodstream it could have caused an infection in her brain.
peptostreptococcus could explain the blinking and —
it's not because i don't have —
you'd do this for house.
then what do you suggest? because the patient's got a high fever a low heart rate and a dim chance of survival if we stand here like idiots.
but it does mean we don't have to talk like him.
we'll make as small an incision as we can. but unfortunately it'll be very painful. after your surgery experience we can't give you anesthesia.
no. we can do this. we know what we're doing.
your former boss?
i'm sorry. you must be —
we've been well-trained. we'll take good care of you. [she starts to leave then turns back.] how can you let her treat you like a footstool?
don't say that. you're better than that.
[angrily] because... life is short. i mean yours could've ended in that surgery. you'd have never lived for yourself. what kind of feminist…? we can have anything.
advance toward the anastomosis.
that's it. push the wall of the intestine toward the skin.
[to lou] don't look down.
abnormally deposited proteins. it's amyloidosis. that would explain the blinking and the low heart rate.
lymphoma.
don't expect anything to change too fast.
why?
sometimes just knowing you’re being treated helps.
i'm sorry. i shouldn't have gotten angry at you. your choices are your choices.
i have huntington’s chorea. dozen years or so my nervous system my cognitive skills even my emotional balance... they'll all start to fray. i won't be able to fly. i won't be able to walk. i won't be able to breathe.
[nods] i don't want to just... be tightening bolts and following instructions. i want something... to be different because of me.
she's getting better. bradycardia's improving. we didn't need —
she was pounding her legs during the hallucinations.
damn.
tests confirmed dr. house's diagnosis.
when you got pregnant the physical stress triggered nodosum leprosum. a common complication of leprosy. inflamed the nerves to your heart. made it hard to absorb vitamins scarred your fallopian tubes. it explains everything.
you might want it for those job interviews.
do you really think she can change?
you can change.
i was wrong.
she's going back to work for that idiot. it's pathetic.
she almost died because of that job. yeah i… i thought —
class is over.
i'm a doctor. did you have a corneal transplant five years ago?
every other patient who had a transplanted organ from that donor is either dead or dying. you got a purse?
i don't mean to scare you but so did the others.
none of the donated organs were hit. it means whatever they got came from the donor's blood.
it narrows down who. corneal transplants are bloodless. it means apple's gonna be fine.
i guess we could wait till we figure out what's wrong with frank.
then that leaves cancer.
no none of them had brain issues.
we know the tennis player had a heart problem. we can maybe tie that to the tuba player's lungs and then somehow tie both those things to the construction worker's liver and then possibly meander over to frank's pancreatic failure but nothing causes simultaneous brain and heart problems.
so it's okay to stab his brain because he's old?
to where? we've gone from making no sense to making less sense and then taken a step backwards.
everyone else is dead.
i'm not gonna scare the hell out of the poor kid's mom because of a long shot corollary to a long shot theory.
we need her to tell us when it hurts. she'll get over it. your husband might not have...
it's finally accelerating. apple's heart rate has become irregular. breathing is labored. colonoscopy's still showing no leaks.
it's not cancer. chemo's toxic.
it did. 'cause it's cancer.
who?
tibalt.
if he had joint pain in his hands he couldn't have played.
there's no distorted perspective in any of his other recent works.
if he's like the other struggling artists i've known he's also into drugs. we should… [to house] what are you looking at?
how did you —? did you run a credit check on me?
your job is to diagnose patients.
[to kutner] you crawled 20 miles?
could also be environmental. we should check his studio for toxins mold fungus.
this is just the contrast material. there is a small risk of an anaphylactic reaction.
he'll never consent to petrosal vein sampling.
he was nervous about an injection of contrast.
very… and if he dies it's good news for all of us but —
where are you going?
he doesn't.
[entering] he's dr. house. he's pleased to meet you.
his drug tests were clean.
what are you talking about?
drugs? how many trials are you on?
first drug —
bisexidrine is designed as an anticoagulant. phase one indicated some risk of nausea ed and insomnia. second drug.
don't worry. your kidneys are fine.
you mean you don't want her to leave you?
so tell her that.
you didn't know?
what are you gonna do?
you don't think a conversation might —
[thinks] none.
steal money and hide it away in a secret account?
culture's still negative.
you think swelling is a symptom of withdrawal?
we've gradually reduced your dosage. you're actually drug-free now.
all part of the job. your blood pressure's normal. can you sit up? [he does. as she leans in to listen to his chest with her stethoscope he bites her neck.] hey! [he grabs her and pulls her onto the bed on top of him.] what are you doing?
question is what happened to his hormones? we're gonna need an ice pack in here.
kluver-bucy wouldn't explain the seizure or the cytokine storm.
the fact that the mri showed no lesions on the temporal lobe tends to rule out your lesions on the temporal lobe theory.
no more conduction.
he's going into v-tach.
[to taub] try to overdrive.
hormone panels were all normal.
you think he's stable enough for surgery?
your heartbeat's out of control. we need to surgically sever the connection between your heart and brain.
regular doctors?
brandon i am dr. hadley. and this is dr. taub.
we need to reexamine neurological disorders. something's slowly progressing.
then he would have been sick months ago not now.
your dad died? are you —
what about meckel's diverticulum? if the surgeons didn't remove the diverticulum it can cause pain bleeding.
nicole had a clot in the hepatic vein. chase sucked it out saved her liver.
she's an addict.
she's a smoker. combine smoking with any one of a dozen genetic disorders and she's a clotting machine.
you don't think house is onto something?
what if it's not how a steamroller works but what it does? clears things.
bubbles.
yes. and also we inject bubbles into the cyst and follow where they drift. if they end up in the other organs we know you're right cut it out she's fine.
house?
maybe the weight stressed her back which —
what's up?
what changed at the temple?
yeah.
gimme a minute.
hey what are you—
a little over three minutes.
she never said.
i don't know.
patient’s seizure resulted from dehydration which resulted from a cocktail of alcohol and ecstasy. mystery solved.
not diagnostically relevant.
also not diagnostically relevant. retinal vein occlusion was fixed. her doctor said it was a venous anomaly.
she parties till 3:00 am. that’s why she's always tired.
(defensively) she’s visited four other doctors in the past year. none of them found anything. she’s a hypochondriac who drank too much.
i can handle this alone.
(to spencer) you’ll have to excuse dr. house. he mistakes immaturity for edginess.
i’m really sorry. just ignore him.
do you have a medical rationalization for that one?
(as she inserts the needle) don’t answer.
(to spencer accusingly) should’ve known it wasn't a coincidence. (throwing some letters down on the bed table) found your letters. you recognized house's name. and you're the first patient i’ve seen who actually enjoyed being accosted by him. (she folds her arms across her chest)
what exactly would you have told me? that you slept with me to get to house? that you've been trying to get him to take your case for over a year?
you used me.
my motives were clear.
was that seizure even real?
there’s nothing to diagnose. your biopsy results are negative.
get dressed. (she throws spencer’s clothes on the bed) i’m discharging you.
house is using you as an excuse to stick his nose in my personal life.
and that proves what exactly? that they're wrong or that you're wrong?
oh come on. you expect me to believe — (she rushes to spencer) sit back. deep breaths. try and relax.
(to the nurse who just ran into the room) get the paddles. she’s gonna crash. damn.
we had to use paddles to stabilize the patient's heart.
yeah i get it. i was wrong. can we move on?
great.
that means that something she did at my place set this off. either she brought drugs in or she grabbed something from my medicine cabinet. and that means my place needs to be searched. now i’d be happy to do that myself but unfortunately that would be far less titillating for house so he's about to come up with some convoluted medical reason why i have to stay here while he goes through my stuff.
i’m not giving you my keys. if you want to do this i’m going.
no. what room did you find it in?
i don't have a bidet.
yeah my inhaler is fascinating. it’s got its own extensive online following.
when i was a kid. it started acting up again when i moved into my new place.
who cares?
i need you to stand up and take off your gown.
not necessarily.
the other night i wasn't your doctor. (she lifts spencer’s arm and starts looking for a spider bite)
how long are you going to be here?
(while continuing the exam) look… i really had no intention of ever seeing you again.
it’s nothing personal. i’m just really not that into repeat performances.
why is that?
you’d think with all that experience that i’d be better than a seven. (she examines spencer’s shoulders then moves her hair aside to look at her neck)
i didn't. my hand's on your hip. you don't feel that? (the mood has been broken)
it means it's not a spider bite.
blood test confirms low potassium levels. explains the numbness in her hip. it’s not good but i think we've got time for at least one or two comments about my personal life.
could be iga nephropathy.
psagn?
renal tubular acidosis. her kidney's don't filter acid out of the blood. excess acid drives down potassium causes kidney calcifications.
it’s not noble for you to protect me from house if you're just gonna judge —
yeah that sounds like a blast. i’m having fun. cramming as much life into my life as i can.
it sounds fun to me. good night. (she leaves)
exam going on. 15 minutes.
you can't make me do that.
(as they walk into the clinic area) thank you.
what? you just defended me.
i don't have a drug habit.
yeah. i’m looking for my ticket back.
it wasn't your fault. can you get me caught up?
it’s good for the patient. good for me.
i know. did you talk about whether this lung field looks a little dark?
or her diaphragm's a little flat. could be a sign of hyperinflation.
lung cysts. they wouldn't show up on an x-ray. treadmill test isn't gonna close her airway. it’ll make her lungs explode.
you ruptured a cyst! her lung collapsed. (she quickly pulls something out of a cabinet)
move. trachea’s deviating to the left.
lung cysts plus all her other symptoms could be amyloidosis which we can manage. or pulmonary fibrosis which —
you fired me because i screwed up. i just proved i can pull my weight.
here i thought i was just into boobs.
(closing the file and looking up at house) okay.
i know what it's like to get this news and no one should have to get it from you. (house leaves)
the biopsy of your lung cyst showed smooth muscle cells. that’s indicative of a disease called lam.
surgery to remove the cysts. but… they’ll come back. little by little the cysts replace healthy lung tissue until your lungs stop working.
yes. i’m so sorry.
they removed all the cysts they could. that should help you breathe better.
we don't know exactly. i’m sorry.
i know you're scared.
you’re gonna be numb for a few more days. then you'll go home and cry for a few weeks. and then you get angry. start telling yourself nothing matters anymore. you start doing stupid things. maybe you go out to bars and pick up a bunch of women.
maybe a little more than you. maybe a little less. i’ll race you. (she gets up to leave)
i was thinking maybe i’d come back later.
all her blood counts are down. it’s a new symptom. aplastic anemia.
i don't work for you. fine. don’t pay me. just let me finish out this case.
best case gives her 12 years.
a few months.
test results are back? what’s she positive for?
jumping to a transplant when we don't know what she —
yeah i get it. but she'll never survive total body irradiation.
almost being the key word. the new marrow would attack the old marrow. she’ll die from graft-versus-host.
she said yes to the transplant.
i can stop.
you’re hiring me back?
i did good work yesterday and i was still fired. what changed? (with sudden realization) you wanted me to spend time with her. see if i could still make a connection.
you’re trying to save me trying to control me. you’re doing exactly what you think that i’m —
allergies. don’t deflect. you always deflect.
she… got upset. she —
no.
she has no tears.
it doesn't cause bleeding.
and it doesn't cause cracked lips in other people.
you’re gonna be okay.
(closing her locker and pausing) i feel alone. and she hasn't gone anywhere.
(sighing) i’m gonna go home. i’m tired. (she leaves the locker room)
could be post concussion syndrome.
for what?
nine hours is a lot of time to be out for a mini stroke.
guy works at home as a consumer product tester. he could've been exposed to a toxin that caused short-term memory loss. wouldn't show up on imaging.
you just said it was great news. now you want to bet against her?
apparently he didn't drink the coffee just smelled it.
six years ago.
he's a single dad. i'm sure he's doing his best.
you got a problem with what cuddy's doing? you think single mothers can't —
my dad was great. after my mom died —
no booze no meds no drugs.
park views are probably 50% more. you're the surprised the guy's a pragmatist after looking at this place?
ump. looks like mold.
exposure to certain types of mold can cause short-term memory loss. we're testing both of you.
i'm sure you are. we're just being cautious. so where do you guys go other than home and school? [she checks samantha’s eyes.]
what about sports friends travel?
[checking samantha’s glands] must be hard not having your mom around huh?
still i'm sure you both miss her sometimes.
you're strong.
yeah.
physically she's fine. mentally she's weird.
where are you going?
we haven't finished with your treatment. we're still waiting on some test results.
[with a puzzled look at foreman] mr. harmon do you know where you are?
is he having a seizure?
if you know the answer can you tell us the answer?
being lead down an annoying path.
and you're obnoxious. he never goes anywhere else.
because he says so. because his daughter says so. because they have no reason to lie.
you sure you don't want children?
you're afraid you'll make the same mistake you made with your wife. get caught taking some other kid to a ball game.
alpha waves increasing.
no nothing. he just got up.
if the brain was doing what it was supposed to be doing we wouldn't be here. he's leaving. come on.
the whole point was to —
his legs are working. obviously his eyes are working too.
he's stopping.
maybe. pull up to her.
what'd that guy want?
go after him. she's not a hooker.
do you want me to describe the clues or do you want to stop him before he finishes off the drugs he just bought?
apparently rip's a coke fiend.
the coke he took while he was wide-awake.
wouldn't be the first time somebody lied about drug use.
great we'll start him on immediate treatment for all kinds of garbage.
not without a sample.
it's a felony.
i'm not doing drugs if that's what you're asking. i just noticed that she had cash in her hand. obviously came from him. obviously didn't have enough time to perform any other services.
mmph. there she is. [they get out of the car.]
wait.
it's good.
no. you gave us the wrong stuff.
i know. i don't want the good get your new customer hooked stuff. i want the stepped on keep the old customer coming back for more stuff.
no i'm a just a bitch who knows what she wants.
not much of a toxin.
cocoa-something. why what does it matter?
how can you be sure?
you think it's ebola? his white blood cell count would be through the roof. it's not an infection.
coags are normal.
[approaching] house is right.
because the daughter's sweating blood. if they have the same thing it means there has to be a common cause. which means it has to be a toxin infection or genetic. and since we've ruled out infections and toxins —
they're depressed. mom's dead. dad's dying. you should know that being bummed isn't necessarily a pathology.
but if you can't feel pleasure what's with the cocaine?
[quietly] mr. harmon? mr. harmon i need you to open your eyes. [he does.] feeling better?
healthy enough to toss you a kidney.
what did cuddy want?
wow! she looks pretty good for someone on roofies.
he must use this room as an airlock. deliveries in. garbage out. he never has to go outside.
you want her to admit that all he has to do is ignore us for a few minutes and we'll take off?
sorry we should have clarified. we're calling about the patient not dr. cameron’s love life.
yeah moves much faster this way.
atrial fibrillation throwing emboli.
liver's fine. amyloidosis.
we checked the place over and over. it's completely clean.
very. he probably has a little ocd.
drugs could damage the heart. pressure imbalance allows fluid to build up in the lungs.
for drugs used recently. not for drugs used before recently.
you turn back into a kid. like kutner.
he needs everything to be nice. he wants to see the best in everyone. kitchen's clear.
there is such a thing as too trusting.
so the object in life is to get hurt just the right amount? excuse me if i don't go out of my way to take relationship advice from you. and trust… (she holds up a water bong) should be earned.
relevant if she's taking them.
irregular heart beat would account for the pulmonary edema.
prinzmetal angina doesn't affect —
house wants you —
we find out our patient's been raped and that's your response?
she lied about dead parents because it's better than rapist parents. you find that unsympathetic?
even if house is wrong the treatment's basically anti-anxiety meds. hard to argue with.
severe stress scrambles the way the brain communicates with the rest of the body.
there's four of us. it's my turn.
you did what you thought you had to do to protect yourself.
it might help to turn him in. file a police report get closure.
not addressing what happened won't make it go away.
i didn't mean that. i just mean that you —
it doesn't have to define you.
or shigella from the restroom. either would account for the red cells the delirium.
it was wood nailed together.
the desk did. looked like she had stapled stuff all over it.
chelation's complete. you're arsenic-free.
in the morning.
you want my advice?
i wish i could tell you what to do. but you're strong. you've made good choices. you'll be fine.
(holding onto sophia) need four milligrams lorazepam!
after the seizure we ran a new mri. (putting a scan on the lightboard) this is sophia’s brain three days ago (putting up another scan) this is her brain today.
lesions grew too fast for cancer.
wbc count would be through the roof.
it was killing her.
acute promyelocytic leukemia's still treated with arsenic.
we still have a problem. arsenic slows leukemia but it can't cure it. if she wants to see 17 she's gonna need a bone marrow transplant.
actually bone marrow's a little more complex. the best donors are immediate family.
your parents' similar dna gives you a much better chance of —
you had no right.
to lie to her.
it's my life.
we need to track down her parents.
children who've been through trauma can't think clearly. children who've been through trauma and are dying —
what she wants could kill her. what she needs could save her.
idiocy is what's killing her.
we could save this patient but all you care about is getting your answer.
taub and kutner can check the donor banks. i'm gonna find her parents. (thirteen leaves)
mr. valez?
i'm dr. remy hadley from princeton plainsboro hospital. we're treating your daughter sophia for leukemia and we need to test both you and your wife for bone marrow donation.
i know this is unexpected but time is short and —
sophia valez?
sophia isabel valez?
just that liars lie.
you stole her identity.
we can protect you. but we need to find your parents.
you're a minor. you obviously forged the emancipation papers. even if we had a donor we'd still need your parents' consent to treat you.
calling your parents doesn't mean a family reunion. you don't even have to see them.
it's only a three out of six.
she'll reject it. and she'll be too weak to try again when a better match turns up.
that was her explanation.
she lied about one trauma to cover a worse trauma.
we'll get to you as soon as we can.
you're not an emergency.
and it's not gonna go any faster by pissing me off.
no. [to the nurse in charge] a routine checkup can wait. what else you got?
while it's true that no sometimes means yes in this context…
[turns to face him] no thanks. [walks away]
no. nor am i looking for a consult.
house…
i'll look in cuddy's desk.
heart palpitations and fatigue — could be a cancer that's spread from the lungs.
amped-up hearing could be linked to nerve palsy.
left side facial weakness.
and we'll give you the blood and his records.
i'll do it.
they're patients. i'm a doctor.
everything's not some fascinating character flaw.
yes i have a shortened life span. another reason why i'm objectively the right choice. [she gasps and doubles over in pain.]
[sitting on the floor near jason] it's his heart.
his neck. distended jugular.
he needs to check your pulse.
we need to get paddles.
we can cardiovert chemically.
if we don't try something he's gonna kill someone. i'm gonna get the drugs.
it's me. [she closes the door.]
starburst artifact. the metal from the gun is ruining the image.
[to house] you're a coward. you need to know everything because you're afraid to be wrong. you're so afraid of being ordinary of being just another doctor just another human being that you'll risk other people's lives.
[grabbing the syringe and injecting herself in the hip] the chances are slim. chances of him shooting one of us on the other hand —
eight ten years.
no.
[pushing herself to a semi-sitting position] house get out of here.
who's the martyr now? either the drugs kill me or he kills me. doesn't seem to make a lot of difference.
you really don't feel bad about killing me?
i don't want to die.
don't do this.
please. sometimes you just have to trust people.
i don't want to die! i don't want to die!
he didn't make me take it.
about that huntington’s drug trial… [she smiles at him.]
there a lot of other people in the trial?
i shouldn't be here. it's nepotism. i know the guy running the drug trials so i get a spot.
the point of this thing is to improve neural cell longevity. which doesn't matter much before symptoms. so you should give my spot to someone —
you need to consider side effects from her gastric bypass surgery.
bypass could create malabsorption issues. leads to low potassium.
ascending numbness means her nerves are breaking down.
let me finish. i'll meet you down there.
appreciate the life lesson but 15 minutes give or take isn't gonna make a difference. get started on your other patients. i'll be down there when we're done here.
[ignoring his hand] if the problem's in her brain it could be ms.
get out of my house.
i came down right after i was finished with house. you were in your office with another patient. and there was another patient in the waiting room.
i'm well-aware of what's gonna happen to my body over the next eight to ten years. i do not need a visual reminder every time i walk into that place.
coronaro-cardiac fistula. even a small hole could cause —
[sitting up] i'm sitting straight.
which means whatever it is it's now in her brain. [she gets up to leave.]
sorry. treatment.
sorry if i’m dying at a bad time for you. could be cns lymphoma. [she leaves.]
i'll keep coming but can you change my appointment time?
yes they do. it's called an immune system.
i lied to you the other night. that woman in the waiting room she didn't freak me out about my future. she freaked me out about my past.
i wanted her to die. she just… yelled so much. and for no reason. just screamed at me in front of my friends. my father tried to explain to me that her brain was literally shrinking that she didn't mean it. that it was the disease but i didn't care. i hated her. i never said good-bye. and she died with me hating her.
large breasts are a classic symptom of you letting foreman take vacation days so he can finish his fda reports before the end of the year.
ceruloplasmin’s normal.
alcohol abuse?
do you think the kids slipped her something? their teachers grilled them.
where’s the woman i spoke to last week? the trial patient um with the advanced symptoms.
is she okay?
why?
i do good today boss?
great. thanks. [she starts to leave.]
keep it.
glue sniffing.
no fever. no polys in the sputum.
janice? i’m remy. i’m —
i heard you left the trial.
if there’s some way i could help…
dr. foreman.
he’s a great neurologist. he’s… a great guy.
why don’t you?
we were warned that nausea’s a side effect and giving you antacids is all he really could do.
normal complement level. normal sized liver.
she ate the shrooms days ago. there’s no way she’d still be sick.
[nods and smiles] i spoke to janice.
yeah. her nausea… she said you told her like get over it?
nausea isn’t something you can overcome with sheer will power.
[nodding] just call her say you’re sorry. she’ll come back.
god you’re acting like house now.
you said the same thing to me when i told you i was having a hard time.
she’s a 40-year-old woman who’s falling apart physically and emotionally. she’s dying.
you’re not acting like house. you are like him.
free t-4’s normal. hypothalamic brain tumor?
[checking the chart] 300.
where is everybody?
i heard janice is back on the trial.
i was wrong. you're not house.
we should go to the party. [she approaches him.]
sounds like fibromyalgia.
if i ever did it definitely wouldn't be like that. don’t worry. i’m not making any plans.
no i haven't. just been busy. metal polish could cause nerve damage if he inhaled enough of it. judging by the shine on that car he used a fair amount.
i don't think so.
i don't want to kiss you again either.
no. because i like you.
what doesn't make sense is me getting involved with anyone.
i’m not giving up on life. i’m just giving up on you. i finally feel like i have a grip on things. i can handle this. what i can't handle is dragging anyone else down with me. [she opens the freezer which is full of packaged meat.] does this look like quail to you?
wild quail can be toxic cause rhabdomyolysis which would explain his pain as well as the elevated ck levels.
if we're right it's definitely treatable.
jeff can you hear me?
[shouts] we need a crash cart in here!
vq scan showed a pulmonary embolism.
it also means it's not rhabdomyolysis.
hypercoagulable state could cause pain and a pe.
i told you it has nothing to do with you.
look at our patient. 32 years old not dead yet and already he's traumatized his wife his son —
true. and they're stuck suffering with him hating every day. only their pain has no prospect of relief.
no.
blockages all over his body would explain his pain why the cramps come and go.
i’ll help. [she grabs her stuff and rushes out the door behind kutner and taub.]
he has air in his blood vessels. if we don't open the artery to his intestines —
non-motor seizures. [house and cuddy both look at her.] sorry i was thinking about the patient. what were you saying?
the pain started in his abdomen near his intestine. the first symptom has got to be key.
janice. you look better.
i haven't even seen you in weeks. i didn't even know our appointments were back-to-back again.
nice.
switching janice’s appointment time so i could see the skies brighten like a lifetime tv movie.
sticking your most improved study participant in my face. is that your way of getting into my pants?
maybe taub was right. it’s psychosomatic after all.
what if the spinal block triggered some sort of placebo effect?
what happened?!
nothing explains this.
how would you like to stop taking vicodin?
there’s got to be something we can do. we can't just let the patient leave.
there’s always something we can do something else we can try.
would’ve shown up on an eeg.
i’m feeling better. [he fiddles with the iv.] what's wrong?
foreman. [he stops.] you busy tonight?
when did that happen?
[reading the file] scope of the stomach and lungs were clean yet she continues to spit up blood from both her stomach and lungs.
thoracic tumor is a better fit. erodes into her airway and esophagus —
stop what?
okay which one of us shouldn't have an opinion?
sorry. you were busy.
how about you just judge our ideas on their own merit?
time zero.
[opening her eyes wide] we cannot let house anywhere near this woman.
passed the first mark.
[examining sarah’s arm] it's not slowing up. no sign of clotting.
it is the blood but the clotting proteins aren't the problem.
patient won't respond to methotrexate. bleeding time hasn't improved.
unless we irradiate her. without the radiation. we book the nuclear lab. we fill out the paperwork. we bring the patient down there. we do everything but flip the switch.
we already started. told you you wouldn't feel a thing.
yeah sure. we'll just start up again when you're done.
sarah?
clear!
what about a calcified valve or a patent foramen ovale?
the patient said she had to go pee. maybe when she got up she started to urinate. increased the vagal tone caused arrhythmia and stopped her heart.
or her own body is making a toxin. cold agglutinins. abnormal protein gets activated by cold temperatures.
why?
she's making you confirm your theory before you treat?
oh damn sorry.
don't be paranoid. i feel great. didn't expect the meds to work this quickly.
several patients have shown improvement. i know my test results have been better. i know i have more energy.
i guess i do have a few reasons to feel good. [she puts her hand on his.] but let's not get ahead of ourselves. you're good but not curing huntington’s good.
it's clumped. house was right. ice bath's on.
time. heart rate's normal.
also located in the left hemisphere of the brain close to the parahippocampal region.
what?
better get out.
ercp was negative.
i want kids.
not now. but since we're dating i just thought you should know.
so did i. even when i didn't know if i had it or not i just assumed i couldn't take the chance but now… even though i know i have it it feels like… an option.
shut up.
it was fine when i came up from admitting.
dana miller the cancer researcher. spontaneous pneumothorax.
we wanna take this case. she's maybe five or ten years away from curing retinoblastoma.
or to be slightly more optimistic late-onset asthma triggered by an unknown allergen.
(to house) so steroids for asthma?
dr. house gets a few perks.
no just very loose interpretations of hospital procedure.
you mean like a sabbatical?
couldn't you just buy an overpriced german sports car or have an affair?
why not? big picture — i don't care if jonas salk’s life is a miserable shell. i just want him to cure polio.
well then why are you a doctor? why aren't you sitting by a pool in fiji knocking back mai tais?
yep.
just a headache. i took some ibuprofen but —
front. why are there never any interesting pictures on these cards? they should make a dirty version.
relax it's not a side effect. people get headaches.
if i'm on the drug it's been weeks. it's not like something's going to suddenly crop up now.
train duck...
piano. (she laughs)
we were in the grc.
blastomycosis. could have been asymptomatic for months. it hits her lungs we give her steroids. it blossoms and attacks her liver.
why didn't we do this test this morning?
no.
i'm losing my peripheral vision? (foreman nods) i am on the drug. does this mean you have to tell them and take me off it?
so my headaches... i'll stop taking the drug and everything should be fine.
(turning back to the test she was performing) specimen's negative for blastomycosis.
(getting up to leave) i'll go give house the test results. you can tell the patient.
(she stops and looks at him) we've been dating for two weeks. you just broke trial protocol and risked your entire career to give me a drug we're not even sure will help me. i don't think i'm ready for that. (she leaves)
thank god we have you here to interpret that for us. sorry i have a headache.
not particularly.
(taking a pill bottle from her locker) the patient needs an mri. if she had gangrene would you be amputating my leg?
i've only been off the drug for 24 hours so i think the bigger issue here is that i've been off you for 24 hours.
it's hard to have a conversation when i'm trying not to move.
(sitting on the sofa) my leg is bleeding.
i was going for the phone and i fell over the table. i can't see.
(sounding scared) i can't see anything.
probably because i didn't want to talk to anyone. you can leave your stolen key on your way out.
on his way to the drug company.
if they can help.
he only thinks he loves me.
we need to give it more time. it's been half a day.
if i were any other patient you'd both be in the lounge eating donuts.
right. any other patient you don't feel guilty. but you don't get to torch your career to pay for your sins.
does that make it any less true?
i'd feel worse if he destroyed his career.
foreman? i can see you.
you snore.
'cause you want to screw with us.
we're adults. we can handle this. you just have to give us a chance.
god i'm so sick of his stupid stunts.
no they don't. there's hr. there's cuddy. there's other jobs.
why do you cling to him? why do you defend him?
i'm not saying you're codependent. i'm saying you're scared.
so you wanna quit?
s — so what do we do?
we're not splitting up.
so what are we gonna do now?
that's it? you're just gonna give up?
then i should quit. it'll be easier for me to find another job.
we should both quit.
i'll see you tonight?
stable. necrosis doesn't look to be spreading.
that's usually what people do when they get fired.
you're right. i'm sorry. it's not your fault.
uh he didn't give us a chance he gave us an ultimatum. i would've thought five years here would buy a mistake or two.
i heard there might be an opening in the er.
i did an er rotation in miami. if i can find another position i figure house will rehire foreman.
cuddy wouldn't give foreman a recommendation. he's not gonna be able to find a decent job.
it's got to be something systemic like autoimmune.
cancer?
then that leaves infection.
sorry i don't speak hair band.
when it's 2009. there aren't any duran duran fans.
(sitting down at the table) if i quit will you rehire foreman?
he can't find another job. i can.
yes.
yes.
hey if you can make it that long then anyone can.
(looking at the monitor) his spleen is fine just some insignificant traces of minor bugs. nothing that'd make him sick.
we assumed if it was an infection it had to be something big and nasty.
i found a job.
eggers at mercy says i can start monday.
house says if i go you can come back.
you're acting like i'm cheating on you.
house knew you'd be like this.
good night. (she gets up from the table)
what going on?
(to foreman) you're trying to get me fired?
i told eggers i didn't want the job.
the point is why didn't you tell me you were doing this? why are you here without me?
oh that's what this is about. it's about you taking control. it's about you not being able to handle me saving your ass.
you're an idiot. (she walks out of the office)
cerebral microtumors could explain the blindness and the hallucinations.
that's why i didn't say tumors. i said microtumors.
we should start genetic testing.
so we start treatment.
so your position is we can't test and we can't treat?
this isn't gonna work.
(moving in front of foreman) black heels or the boots?
(looking over her shoulder at foreman) boots it is.
for all we know house knows you’re a fan of those heels.
vitamins wouldn’t cause pelvic pain. (there’s a pause and everyone looks at her) there’s a note in here we’re supposed to refer to his testosterone shots as vitamins. his parents aren’t just liars they want us to be liars too.
my dad was the same way about me maybe having huntingtons it's —
pain could be caused by a blind uterus hidden in his abdomen. he needs an mri.
contrast in.
foreman and i are both professionals. (then talking about the scan) stomach and liver are clear.
he’s not really your type huh? (talking about the scan) moving down for the pelvic floor.
we just broke up. i’m not quite ready to mock him yet.
area around the intestinal tract is clear. no blind uterus. (thirteen gets out of her chair and goes out the door)
we’re going to use this scope to fill your bladder with saline then examine your urethra for any narrow spots.
i thought it would be awkward for you having them here.
that pressure’s normal just try to hold on for a few more minutes.
muffled heart sounds. jugular’s distended.
his heart is filling with exudate if we don’t drain it it will stop beating. (she jams a syringe into his chest and pulls up on the plunger)
we drained the fluid from his pericardial space; his heart rate is back to normal.
he started testosterone —
(continuing) a few months ago. that can cause autoimmune diseases like polyarteritis and sle which can cause pericardial effusion and pelvic pain. so it is related.
probably.
or maybe this is a good opportunity to tell him the truth. it might make it simpler for all of you.
just some extra medicine just to be safe. i hear you’re quite the basketball player what position?
small forward. how’s your crossover dribble?
you’re going to feel a little pinch okay. so if you’re not that into it why’d you join the team?
my parents were the same way always pushing me to try new things.
what does your dad say?
(looking at jackson’s hand) your palm is red.
that we still don’t know what’s wrong with you.
patient can wait; you could have died.
patient’s palms are red; lab tests confirm liver and kidney dysfunction.
protein levels are normal. this kid’s depressed if he’s self-medicating with drugs and alcohol that would explain his symptoms.
you really think house took too many vicodin?
excuse me?
yes. it’s a simple answer.
i also miss sleeping with other men and i’m sure you miss sleeping with other women. monogamy is like saying your never going to have any other ice cream flavor besides rocky road.
no. rocky road is great. it’s a very delicious and complicated flavor. i also know that if i have other flavors then rocky road is going to be left in the freezer where anyone can just dip in. can we please drop the metaphor? (she finds a piece of paper in a desk drawer). why is this coming up now?
when did he bring that up?
this morning taub called you a robot.
and if they know house knows. this is bad.
but this is bad.
(reading from the paper she found in jackson’s desk) “i stand alone my soul and me beneath the mask that others” (pause as she looks at house) “see.” (she looks back at kutner questioningly)
(continuing) “a pain that tears and bites and will not bend only when i sleep will it end.”
(to kutner) you sure his chest is moving?
you know recreating the moment when you made us crap our pants isn’t actually all that funny.
you can’t deny that this kid may be suicidal.
i’ll start him on pyrimethamine. (she leaves)
it might help more if you talk to him.
he obviously senses he’s different. he’s looking for answers.
sure.
i'm afraid so.
these aren't vitamins.
i can't tell you that. you should ask your parents.
he asked a question. i was tired of lying. i didn't tell him anything about his genetic condition.
(to cuddy) i'm sorry. i'll stay away from their son.
eventually you have to talk to your parents again.
do you feel like a girl?
jackson. as hard — as it is right now at least it's out in the open.
you don't feel this way?
yeah they can.
surgeon reports the bleeding was caused by a gastric fistula caused by necrotizing pancreatitis.
zollinger-ellison?
zollinger-ellison fits better.
patients die all the time.
he was no more confused than any other teenager. then i started a fire and threw gas on it.
i'm sorry.
i let my feelings —
(to cuddy) thank you.
no reason not to wear them now that house is gone.
yeah. just tired.
so he's dying slightly less quickly than we thought. that's great news. (pause) i'm not okay.
what's his ast?
that's a pretty fast drop. are we sure it's from the anti-inflammatories?
he's back on testosterone.
but it could improve his kidney function which would also lower his ast.
which means it's not scleroderma.
it's not scleroderma.
it's because his kidneys got better from the testosterone.
we ran into each other in the lobby. (she sits down)
we've ruled out zollinger-ellison.
why?
how you feeling?
i saw you talking to your parents earlier. that's good.
that's great!
no reason you can't do both. (jackson nods and thirteen smiles at him)
gage was a different person after the spike. argumentative. impulsive.
a well-placed tumor in the nasal cavity eroding into the brain could do the damage.
are you sure you understand?
it's okay.
it's okay.
he has frontal lobe disinhibition.
i'm okay. i'm not jealous of cuddy’s pistons. (talking about the test) starting baseline activation.
what he was saying was obnoxious.
he didn't call me attractive. he cast me in his mental porno.
attracted can also mean i'm attracted to the whole package to who you are. (referring to the scan) slight elevation at transaxial 60.
actually it's exactly what men say if they have any brains.
all right we have enough for a baseline. what can we ask him that's indiscreet but that he won't hate us for knowing?
good. he's spiking at 30.
(speaking into the microphone) wait you're 46 and you've never voted?
okay nick. we've got what we need. we can't biopsy that. it's too close to the brainstem.
so we give him steroids and if we're right we should start seeing his symptoms improve within half a day.
what are you looking at?
ooh you smooth talker.
we know it's not systemic sclerosis.
he's got brain damage. he's likely to have peripheral nerve damage no matter what the cause.
the steroids must have forced it into the open.
it means we were wrong about infection. his temperature's just going up and down because something's playing with his thermostat.
also irrelevant. couldn't cause any of the symptoms.
neuro is also written in green. does that mean she has green neurological symptoms as well?
she'd have a fever. toxins?
no cough no fever and blofeld didn’t smoke a cigar.
emphysema.
debbie was able to predict there was something wrong with the patient before you were. is that a coincidence too?
there are no worms in the lungs.
no esophagitis. it's not reflux.
you actually think the cat is going to predict someone's death?
skin test was negative.
don't you want to check their charts?
[checking the chart] he has a severe cat allergy.
what's wrong?
green again?
it is possible she's still faking.
i'm just saying the brown urine doesn't make sense.
we've ruled out every possible cause for brown urine. no blood in the urine. liver and kidneys fine.
we checked.
we scoped her when we checked for the fistula. there's no tumor.
raised edges are actually necessary since that's the opening to the appendix.
we're wasting time looking for cancer. she's still walking around. she's still pretty healthy. maybe it's something minor.
yesterday it was all a coincidence.
why are you still alive?
i guess he was impressed that you stood up to him — and got a cat to pee on his chair.
what are you doing up in middletown?
it could evade the ct and still show up on an mri with contrast.
what do you see?
excuse dr. kutner. he gets a little excited about new technology. it can get loud in there and a little closed off. these will put you in a quiet place. you can create a relaxing scenario for yourself. [she puts the goggles on lee.]
marchiafava-bignami disease fits.
no tremors.
could mean he drinks more or less or maybe something else.
blood in your urine clogged up your old catheter.
every new clue gets us closer to the answer.
the surgery will get us more clues. [she flushes out the new tube with a syringe of saline.] you have visitors.
you can come in.
maybe you should go now.
sorry. you were crying.
the wife's not sure says he doesn't complain.
we've prioritized. he can only blink a real history would've taken weeks.
epstein-barr's out.
i'm going to close your eyes so you can get some sleep. hopefully when you wake up we'll see some improvement.
[to foreman] hand me the flourescein stain.
epithelium looks torn. these drops sting.
i'm going to close your left eye to keep it protected. i'm going to blink your eye a few times to distribute the dye. [she does and then looks at his eye through a lens.] ulcerative keratitis.
so dying liver released toxins damaged the nerves led to locked-in syndrome.
you didn't notice that i was wearing it?
he noticed and you didn't?
i like it that's the point. i'd rather have it at home in the jewelry box than getting peed on at work.
when i was putting in the catheter. why?
can’t. she’s demanding to be released so she can get home to her husband.
she claims he got stronger as soon as she stopped breathing.
that kutner?
where are you going? house didn’t ask us to find out where he wasn’t.
[jingles some keys and whispers] this might be faster.
man/boy heaven. surprised he ever leaves.
oh god.
no pulse.
still no pulse! come on kutner!
he’s cold. eric!
you’re blaming us?
we would have helped him if he had reached out to us. he didn’t.
this isn’t our fault! something like 25% of suicidal people show no outward signs of depression.
blood ph was normal. polyserositis would inflame the membranes near her epiglottis and the heart’s pericardium causing the chest pain.
he was pretty special. we were lucky to have him.
house.
they weren’t useless. they just didn’t know anything more than we did.
just a few more minutes then we’ll get you back to eddie. what’s it like — 30 years with the same man?
you don’t think he loves you?
why did you stay?
charlotte?
autoimmne hepatitis? did you page foreman?
house… it was a suicide. the police have already investigated.
no.
we all want to know why kutner did it but we’re not gonna waste time chasing ghosts.
remy hadley. i also answer to thirteen. i sometimes sleep with you.
alone?
[swallows hard] so i should go.
nurses found her like this. she broke into the cart and injected whatever she could grab. dumb way to look worse for eddie.
test was negative for aat deficiency. myelofibrosis fits but testing takes at least 48 hours.
damage is too severe. she needs a whole new liver.
how many times have you lied to the transplant committee?
how many times has it worked?
[grabbing his pager] we’re not just going to leave them to die while you fixate on kutner.
you’re basically asking us to commit murder.
there’s a difference when he has 20 years to live instead of two days.
that’s your way of convincing us to do this by saying it’s no more immoral?
we should be protecting him.
i’m not doing this.
infection means we have a new clue.
sarcoidosis hits the spleen and the liver.
possible exposure people places.
what’s the mystery? the nutcase spends all his free time wreaking havoc at toxic waste dumps.
maybe he’s looking for someone to mother him after what happened.
could also be our only warning before a massive stroke.
brain would connect the two.
i guess we’ll just continue to twiddle our thumbs.
progressive systemic sclerosis. guy practically lives in industrial waste sites. if a solvent got absorbed through his lungs caused an autoimmune firestorm…
but autoimmune diseases are serious. it might not be a bad idea to take some time at home. rest up.
it’s not a tumor or an aneurism.
cameron’s already done a full set of lower-body x-rays.
ankle tibia fibula all look normal. no inflammation no signs of osteo.
you and your wife… you talk about stuff?
no. anything else?
normally it doesn’t matter. but last week it did.
that’s impossible. it’s the hardest bone in the body.
osteogenesis imperfecta?
house is right. it’d be hard to find a guy outside chernobyl who’d been exposed to more carcinogens. pesticide plants nuclear waste sites.
all signs point to cancer but you can't blast a cancer you can’t find.
steroids already weakened his immune system. that much radiation’ll kill him before it kills the cancer.
that’s like pouring gasoline on a fire. at least total body irradiation’s an actual treatment.
it’s gonna be okay. once we can —
he’s in v-tach and no pulse. grab the paddles!
deaf 14-year-old started hearing imaginary explosions.
someone at the wrestling meet would have noticed a seizure.
the patient doesn’t want an implant because he’s comfortable with who he is. it’s admirable.
it’s also a culture. the deaf have their own schools their own language. [looks at seth] still no spiking.
is that supposed to mean something?
we should do an angio—
cutting weight for wrestling could have led to rhabdomyolysis.
i have three theories.
he needs a reason to be into a bachelor party?
give me your wallet. [the dancer is crawling on all fours toward them]
[looking away from the dancer for the first time] you think house is into cameron? [she slips a bill into the dancers boy shorts.]
if chase cheats then they shouldn’t be getting married in the first place.
being drunk doesn’t change who you are. it just reveals it.
god i hope so.
the fact that you sent me on a scouting mission—
no way to know for sure without a brain biopsy. if i get drunk enough there’s a chance i might make out with one of the strippers. or become one.
why did you do it?
probably just a post-op complication. arnold-chiari?
they swap spit virus travels to his brain leads to meningitis leads to increased intracranial pressure.
it is vodka?
glomerulonephritis? a wrestler. steroids could have damaged the kidneys. hmm. the scotch is nice. [she passes it to foreman]
no hypertension. plasma metanephrine’s normal.
[points] down the hall two doors on your right.
it takes time.
hashimoto’s would explain the kid’s urine and brain pressure.
he ripped out his implant. so much for improving his life. [she’s trying to stop the bleeding]
blood. could be thrombocythemia. excess platelets lead to clotting throughout the body.
no house ruled it out because it would affect the larynx. patient would be… hoarse. which we wouldn’t notice in a deaf kid who rarely speaks.
it’s the safest way to confirm what’s wrong with him.
say “ah.” [ellie translates.]
chewing tobacco wouldn’t explain his symptoms.
usually responds to corticosteroids and methotrexate. i’ll start the meds.
no tumors or punctures in the lungs. no bruising. no sign of trauma. no stds.
ct showed no inflammation on the lungs.
could be autoimmune.
by doing what?
we don’t know it was the biopsy that caused the heart problem. maybe the heart caused the lungs to collapse.
what if we can’t restart it?
it’ll take four minutes to mri her entire heart.
left atrium is fine.
right atrium is fine.
we have some time.
the three-minute threshold is a guideline.
we’re over three minutes.
no. and all tests indicate that…
tumor? scar tissue?
the picture doesn’t change. she lies there in pain. he sits there worried.
no. no stds. we tested her.
she’s septic. we don’t need a heart-lung machine. we need a blood-vessel-holder-together machine.
is house really done?
dopamine it is.
you’re saying we should accept her decision.
maybe we can get the boyfriend to convince her to do it.
current issue isn’t the split brain. the surgery corrected —
his present symptoms could mean autoimmune disease nasolacrimal tumor an infection or just a cold.
does our patient freak you out a little?
if he’s two people then we’re all two people and we just don’t know it. what does that say about identity?
it’s from the steam build-up. [she stands on the toilet seat to take a sample.]
it’s always a sad thing when sperm comes between people.
antifungal meds. ordinarily we’d put them in your iv but since your right brain doesn’t seem too fond of ivs… you should be feeling better in a few days.
and it’s not a coordination issue. dehydration can cause loss of balance. we haven’t had him on iv.
the cancer cells are actually re-growing a connection between the left and right hemispheres.
yeah that’s not freaky at all.
confabulation means no communication. means your theory’s wrong.
recently?
you’re right hand’s playing too.
splinter hemorrhages under his fingernails.
need a bag of b-negative in here!
yeah. we gave him heparin and did an echo of his heart to see if it was throwing clots but —
he apologized for being sweaty said it had always been an issue but what if it’s a symptom? there are cancers that can cause night sweats and can lead to clots — lymphoma…
this is not the best time.
maybe. but something’s obviously causing the clots.
we’re not trying to scare you but even in its early stages the fatality rate…
his brain mri showed narrowing in the blood vessels leading up from the neck. if we do shake something loose we could kill him.
rhabdo?
cushing’s. cortisol overproduction could interfere with heart rhythm.
sprayed around a bathroom the size of a shoebox.
i’ll check for any references associated with health issues.
we’ll just leave the… three of you alone.
