thank you thank you. when i was eighteen my dad loaned me $20 000 for a college tuition which he would have known was a mistake had he known that i wasn't actually in college. [board chuckles] i took his money and invested in a friend who had a little business and when my dad found out what i had done with his money he and i didn't talk much after that. but my friend's business took off and i used the profits from that to buy another company and another and i must have been pretty good at it had a good eye because before i knew it people were making offers for my company. and uh about a year ago i went public and overnight i was worth a billion dollars. so i went to see my dad. [board chuckles cuddy looks to wilson who sort of smiles] i'll admit i wanted a little payback you know kind of shove the wind in his face so i went upstate and sat in the kitchen i grew up in and uh he had no reaction. it wasn't his fault he didn't even know who i was. because his alzheimer's had taken a turn for the worse despite the best drugs and care out there and that is why i'm here. what if my contribution to this hospital is the difference between no cure and a cure for cancer? the difference between a man not recognizing his wife of 35 years and being able to look at her and say good morning honey. i love you. [wilson now looks pensive and a little sad. (hey we keep coming back to wilson and he doesn't say anything something must be important here!)] if there's a disease out there killing people i am writing you a blank check to fight back. [big smile] so things are going to change a lot. [more board clapping. strangely enough wilson is the last one to start clapping and it's very subdued. hmmm]
i want to run this place like a business.
nice one. but i'm serious. the product that you're selling is good health it shouldn't be a tough sell. you don't want to sell it means people don't care about your product. you care if people are healthy or are you too proud for that? [cuddy looks insulted but vogler looks over her and sees] who's that? [a yo-yo being played with by one dr. house.]
aren't doctors supposed to wear lab coats. [house lifts his head slightly to eavesdrop.]
everyone's buddy.
then why does he get away with it?
hmm. [he walks off.]
thanks. what is a department of diagnostic medicine?
it's a financial black hole. [he sits.] department costs us $3 million a year treat one patient a week.
what about everyone else? his department's not going to find the cure for breast cancer.
are you sleeping with house?
but you did right? a long time ago?
if your judgment is compromised by prior or current relationship that is my business.
he's still not wearing a coat.
i'm sure you did. and yet he's not wearing it. i'm just wondering if that's a reflection on him or on you. [cuddy gives a non-smile.]
just wanted to stop by and introduce myself. i'm edward vogler new chairman of the board. in a way i guess that makes me your boss.
that was my very first heart transplant meeting very exciting.
patient's very lucky to have such a passionate doctor who stands up for what he believes in.
yeah. fraid you've been duped though. [he pulls out the bottle of ipecac from his pocket.] the nurse found this in the patient's purse. [pause]
tough being a doctor. you've got all that power. the power to play god.
this is not a game to me dr. house.
right.
[smiles as he rises] i looked into that tenure thing and you're right. it's actually easier for me to get rid of a board member like cuddy or wilson than to get rid of a doctor. that's interesting isn't it? [house is left with something to think about.]
budget?
revenue statement list of expenses
saving new jersey from leprosy yes i know. getting me his numbers that's your job. [house barges in.]
who'd you kill?
what? they want you to examine a sick person? this is a public relations nightmare. don't think our staff do that kind of thing around here this place would be crawling with sick people!
nobody tells you what to do. am i right dr. cuddy?
we're not leaving until he's gone or you show me one good reason for keeping him.
he loses money.
you can't control him.
d-d-d-d-dr. house in the house! impeccable timing as always.
my colleague has just informed me that she has a singular talent. you are just in time for a demonstration. [sits down to enjoy the show]
that's sad.
john smith is here only because of court order. i had the records faxed to the judge; she rescinded the order.
keeping the government off our ass. hmm. yeah. [house's beeper beeps.] that makes no sense for a public institution.
yeah and he just walked out of here with nothing. something's up.
he makes you miserable. eight years he's worked here never made a dime for you never listened to you.
he hasn't changed in eight years. either he can't change or you can't change him. you have no idea how many times he's lied to you undercut your authority made you look like crap to other doctors.
that you don't hate him.
no. that's me. you you're softer.
it's human nature to wanna protect people we like.
we think if we can just form the right team we'll all get along be able to pull the boat <U+0096>
well this is not a team it's not a boat it's not a machine that has a lot of parts that have to work together. the metaphors are all crap. this is a business. that's all it is. you like him that's bad for business.
thanks for letting us know. [vogler picks up the phone.] give me the u.s. attorney's office.
edward.
what's the status on house?
and you told him no and gave him how long?
guy's never done what he's told. don't see why he's going to start now. [vogler walks over to talk to cameron who is dealing with clinic folders.] hi! edward vogler. is dr. house claiming that i'm forcing him to get rid of one of you? i assume his goal is to stir up antagonism toward me.
i am forcing him. i'll do whatever i can to ease the transition for whoever he chooses.
i don't feel guilty.
i don't feel guilty that doesn't mean i don't feel bad. i'm rich but i'm still human. [he smiles.] i just wanted you to know that if there's anything i can do for you my door's open.
i do. don't know his team though. [he walks off.]
she sleeping?
[looks at a clipboard] warfarin-induced skin necrosis. i have no idea what that means. but it says here we gave her the warfarin and i do know what induced means we did this?
oh you two need time to get your story straight.
so you don't just blindly follow his commands. you're your own man. and yet here you are working for a man you can't stand.
what exactly is it you respect? his attitude toward humanity? he thinks we're all idiots and liars. how bout his attitude toward you plays with you like a cat with a ball of string <U+0096>
i want to know if you want to keep your job.
that's not an answer.
still not an answer.
dr. chase.
he's not gonna fire anybody.
no.
this is not a negotiation it never was. i need to know that whatever i ask you to do no matter how distasteful you find it you'll do it. and just as importantly you need to know that. [cuddy sighs and house leaves slamming the door behind him. mr. hernandez confronts him on the way out.]
well if house picks you i'll be needing a new source in that room.
sure. foreman's smarter house has got a thing for cameron.
i will protect you as long as i need you. and you will feed me information as long as you need me. i spoke with cameron because if i have alternatives i don't need you.
foreman ever said anything about talking to me? interesting.
no chase stays. pick someone else.
deal's changed. pick someone else.
pick someone else or it'll be the whole department. [he leaves. cuddy gives him a i don't know what's up either look and leaves too.]
the senator's suffering from nausea headache and mental confusion.
you're being childish. look if his case is as trivial as you think it'll take you three minutes to diagnose him.
you're mad at me.
do you know why i'm forcing you to fire one of them? because you need to prove to me that you're a team player. now if you did that you wouldn't need to go through this exercise.
[as house is leaving] oh and by the way i need you to give a speech at the national cardiology conference. next week.
eastbrook pharmaceuticals has developed a new ace inhibitor. i would like you to extol the virtues of this breakthrough medication.
viopril is a significant improvement over the old version. all there in the study. [he hands house a booklet of information.]
[sighs] you can either give one ten minute talk and one three minute diagnosis or you can fire one of your pets. my understanding was that you believed in rationality above all else. [house grabs the viopril information along with the senator's chart.]
i just saw senator wright he looks like hell. that sushi must have been a lot worse than you thought.
here's a few key points i want you to cover during your speech.
throw in a joke. [vogler leaves.]
but hey why listen to me? i own the company i'm certainly not to be trusted right? dr. gregg house on the other hand has a reputation. for integrity among other things. [crowd chuckles. quick shot of wilson cuddy chase and cameron sitting at a table in the audience.] ladies and gentlemen dr. gregg house. [house stands up and walks to the podium to applause. the ppth table looks slightly apprehensive as if their jobs were riding on what is to happen next. well i guess when you think about it we see foreman for the first time leaning against a doorway. house adjusts the microphone and]
[quietly yet deadly] that's not a speech.
foreman or cameron? [house gives a little smile and goes back to the podium.]
thank you doctor. you've been so good to me.
when i think about how i treated you
so um there is some hope?
hey!
in the morning i expect you in my office with your letter of resignation and plans for a public apology otherwise i'll destroy you. [house looks a little shocked as vogler walks off.]
as most of you know gregory house recently gave a speech about me. [wilson enters.] i'd like to return the favor.
dr. wilson. i was hoping you were going to miss this one. a man is the sum of his actions. here are a few of dr. house's. he violated a dnr and was charged with assault. he brought a termite into the or and spat on a surgeon. he accepted a corvette from a patient who was a known member of the new jersey mafia.
edward.
these are the last three months. he's personally had more complaints filed against him than any department in this hospital.
he is a drug addict who flaunts his addiction and refuses to get treatment. he is a disgrace and an embarrassment to this hospital. i'd go on but it gets kinda mean so i'm gonna keep this simple. house goes or i go.
and by i i mean my $100 million. how's that for personalizing?
gregory house is a symbol of everything wrong with the healthcare industry. waste insubordination doctors preening like they're kings and the hospital their own private fiefdom. healthcare is a business i'm gonna run it like one. i hereby move to revoke the tenure of dr. gregory house and terminate his employment at this hospital effective immediately.
we just did.
the vote is on the table. all in favor? [there is silence in the boardroom. awkward pauses ensue until one doctor on vogler's right raises his hand. all of the rest of the hands in the room quickly go up except for cuddy's and wilson's. cuddy stares at vogler who stares back and she sighs and raises her hand which leaves] dr. wilson?
the motion is defeated. dr. wilson would you mind leaving the room please?
we're gonna take another vote.
we're voting on a different matter which you are conflicted out of.
this vote is whether to dismiss dr. james wilson. [wilson a little annoyed leaves.]
really? see i thought you were the one trying to ram her into a drug trial five minutes after surgery <U+0096>
well the guy running the study sure wasn't.
his study his call! [cuddy comes out of the clinic to watch.]
the numbers look bad the study looks bad!
and keep a life-saving protocol off the market!
you ever heard of the fda? they eat blips for breakfast! one person should never endanger thousands!
the board's meeting again this evening. why don't you settle down? play some game boy. why don't you watch your soap? i hear they're firing the handsome doctor today boy that should be a good one. [he walks off. house glares at cuddy before he leaves.]
it's the same motion as yesterday people same reasons. all those in favor of dismissing gregory house raise a hand. [everyone raises a hand except cuddy.] dr. cuddy you realize this is going to happen.
you can't abstain.
you've changed your mind since yesterday? what did he do buy you dinner and roses? threaten to drown your dog?
right. he saved another life.
good for him. it's great. it's not the point.
and you could do it a lot better if you didn't have to worry about some madman running around the hospital accountable to no one!
house won't listen to anyone <U+0096>
i move for the immediate dismissal of dr. lisa cuddy.
