did you redo the x-ray?
well you don't need a consult. you know the diagnosis.
the man's in a coma.
you're getting crumbs all over him.
some people think they can still hear.
do you know why people are nice to other people?
exactly. you're gonna eat these chips? [he reaches for them but house grabs them away.]
you need people to like you.
yes. but you need people to like you because you need people. unless you think you can get the next court order yourself. if stacy can't trust you you can't use her. [house hands over the chip bag.] and that's not even dealing with the greater agenda <U+0096> [house takes the bag back before wilson can have any] of getting her to dump her husband and fall in love with you all over again.
what is it?
you're gonna have to do the biopsy.
dr. cameron? could i borrow you for a consult? [she goes outside.] bittersweet thing about being head of the oncology department i get cced in all the biopsy results.
yeah. so i take it you were in there informing her?
doing what? making friends?
it's not your job to be her friend. do you understand? and it's not worth it. she feels better her few final days and you're not the same maybe for years.
i know it's not worth it.
house! need you.
hay fever?
two minutes.
fine i'm lying. 30 minutes.
benadryl might help.
steam room?
i've got a nine year old with cancer. alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. terminal kid trumps your stuffy nose.
she's hallucinating. [he said the magic word]
yeah except there is no cancer in her brain. pristine ct scan blood tests protein markers all negative.
fascinating huh? and not that it matters but if you fix whatever's going on in her head you give her maybe another year. long time for a nine year old.
with a patient.
no.
would you excuse me just 2 minutes.
one hallucination; maybe it was just bad pork maybe there's nothing
which could suggest a tumor in her lung.
not a chance. give me that.
i opened it. we've got an mri and an echo of her heart there's nothing there.
i can't. there's only one condition that simultaneously affects the heart and the brain but she
tuberous sclerosis in a kid that also has alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. two different unrelated cancers at the same time is a statistical no no.
don't don't start with the numbers.
so you're gonna cut her open?
you're just going to grope around inside an immuno-compromised nine year old? she could die on the table.
house you've gotta do better than that.
brave kid she even gave her mom a pep talk.
what's your problem?
you're unbelievable.
andie handles an impossible situation with grace. that's not to be admired?
you don't see grace because you won't go anywhere near her.
yeah well we're evil.
she's nice.
so the little kid dying of cancer i shouldn't like her?
you have a cane nobody even likes you.
they found a tumor it's in her lung extending into her heart. it wasn't visible on the mri because it's growing along the heart wall. now because of the placement the surgeon has to temporarily remove andie's heart. it's called an explant. they cut out the tumor and replace any damaged heart muscle with bovine patches. that's a patch made from cow's pericardium. it's a sac that encloses the heart.
the problem is there might not be enough heart left once they remove all of the tumor. and if the tumor's metastasized there nothing we can do.
she didn't bleed out of her eye from a heart tumor.
that's impossible.
oh shut up. if the tumor's benign that means it didn't cause her hallucinations.
so the tumor is a coincidence.
no you said it would be there it was there. it can't be a coincidence.
and the retinal bleed? another coincidence?
a clot could explain the eye but doesn't explain the hallucinations.
great; another thing that's not causing the hallucinations.
the clot could explain the eye and the hallucinations but what about the tumor. tumors the size of an octopus wrapped around a little girl's heart are not just a coincidence.
what's the theory here? this girl's body's a lemon? faulty manufacturing? everything's falling apart.
there's no clot?
we can't do exploratory surgery on her brain.
[sighs] okay she's gonna die.
i guess so.
to tell andie she's going to die? that's very un-you.
go to hell.
the plan is basically to... reboot your daughter. like a computer. we shut her down then restart her.
we cool her core body temperature to 21 degrees celsius. use blankets. ice.
not quite in hibernation a bear's heart beat is just very slow; in cardiac arrest there is no heart beat.
temporarily yes. by cooling her we limit the risk of damage when we remove her blood. not all of it two to three liters.
then we put it back. it's called perfusing the circuit. in this case her brain and using an mri we'd have a very brief window to hopefully see the outline of the clot. if it's there and if it's operable we go get it. and andie walks out of here.
signed consent forms.
you sound better.
about what?
i didn't talk to her; she doesn't need to know the specifics of this procedure.
that doesn't mean she's mature enough to handle this kind of decision.
they were able to restart her heart. she's doing as well as can be hoped.
we think so. the neurosurgeons are attempting to remove it right now.
a few hours.
you're treating your stuffy nose with cocaine?
it's all about speed isn't it? one thing to another; never standing still. you're pretty good at that.
it's time.
andie's going home.
i read the surgeon's report.
clot was nowhere near her amygdala. means her fear emotions were working perfectly.
yeah. so her bravery was not a symptom.
she enjoys life more than you do.
she stole that kiss from chase. what have done lately?
she could outlive you.
how does falling off your roof do that to a guy's fingers?
dic.? guy falls off a roof the first thought is it's always a clotting problem
this is exactly the type of thing you would do.
you were just jerking cuddy around?
one thing cuddy is not is clueless.
weird nothing funnier than almost killing a guy.
no. not a chance.
i have no idea.
because it's not like house. that was your point right?
um medical reasons?
why are you so curious about his curiosity?
because you dumped him. and you're married. and they are neither of those things.
no nothing wrong with that.
it's cuddy.
you can yo-yo one-handed.
cuddy feels guilty about not diagnosing psittacosis.
there's no way she could have.
you're just mad that he's closer to a nobel prize than you are.
it's not just a trip to stockholm you know. it comes with a cash prize.
he cures thousands of people every year you cure what? 30?
oh i see! so you hate him because the lives he saves aren't as good as the lives you save.
so it's tb but not tb?
the guy does know tuberculosis. if he says it can manifest itself <U+0096>
is that your problem with him? you see hypocrites every day why is this guy so special?
so it's all because he's one of them useless specialists?
that doesn't sound like you!
paranoid?
what did you do to ceci?
must be hot as hell under those lights.
it's an unfair world.
what are you doing?
of course.
the picture's fine. [house looks puzzled and then leaves leaving a puzzled foreman and wilson.]
compelling television.
that's your problem with him isn't it?
yeah the man actually enjoys what he does. [pointed look.]
i'll make sure stockholm knows.
patient experiences shock-like sensations as well as headaches nausea and drowsiness.
excruciatingly painful shocks. er docs referred him to a neurologist who referred him to five other doctors in the last seven days.
no mri showed no white matter lesions and the shocks aren't accompanied by neck flexing.
we're discussing your new patient.
you accepted him the moment i loaned you five grand.
you're going to like this. kid's getting shocked every few minutes.
been there done that also ruled out cancer ms pyridoxine toxicity and all the popular neuropathies.
doesn't explain the low white count.
not this low.
not this low.
no skin lesions.
no external outbreak.
well this this is perfect.
yesterday when i loaned you five thousand dollars to buy a new car. [points at the bike]
two-wheeled vehicles that travel 150 miles an hour don't really go well with crippled irresponsible drug addicts.
you're taking it back.
forget dinner you're going to kill yourself!
yes i would. if she were speaking to me.
fine.
uhh...no. and i'm not letting you in my car until i see your wallet
other than the sky-rocketing interest rates on personal loans? you know this is the fourth time i've loaned him money? not lunch money. money money.
[throws his pen on to the table and sighs] i'm cancelling dinner
geez cameron's got a big mouth!
hey! you used me to avoid seeing your parents.
i don't i just thought it might be interesting to find out why.
you would have lied!
no! [pause] wait what... have you got the money?
if you have the money then why did you need the loan?
[dumbfounded] you're [splutters] you're trying to... objectively measure how much i value our friendship?!
[takes the cheque and puts it in his wallet] fine. thanks. now be a grown-up and either tell mommy and daddy you don't want to see them or i'm picking you up at 7 for dinner [gets into his car]
i lied. i've been lying to you in increasing amounts ever since i told you you looked good unshaved a year ago. it's a little experiment you know see where you draw the line [closes the car door and starts his car up]
what kind of rash?
any discolouration around the edges?
it's hard to say.
you did ok he's a good kid.
he hates being a disappointment.
you know what i figure is worse than watching your son become crippled? watching him be miserable.
is there a light somewhere that goes on when i have food?
how's your biker?
the things people do. doping vicodin... [pointed look]
what?
your 2 o' clock or my 2 o' clock?
she looks perfectly happy. obviously they huddled in the hall and worked up this circus act on the off-chance you'd be in here
hmm! pissy with you happy with her husband. yes there could only be one possible explanation
yes yes i'm with you so far
you really really need to get some--
er mark is in group therapy for people coping with disability. he was thinking about developing a drug addiction but that would be stupid.
not going to make some joke about mark being in therapy?
[looking rather thoughtful and suspicious] you're making me nervous
if he does we'll see abnormal cells in the marrow.
i'll get them in as soon as i can.
it's possible some damage was done during one of the tests we gave him.
we can't know anything for sure until the biopsy comes back.
it stings i know.
can't do that jeff. if you want to say something you've got to write it down okay?
if it's cancer it's possible. there's no way to know for sure.
phone not working? one of the morgue attendants asked me to bring this to you [hands her a slip of paper]
yeah me too actually. i was wondering why the times was returning your call. you a doctor or the bicycle police?
[sighs] have you actually told them anything yet?
i'm worried about you.
[looks down] no. he's made a mistake revealing the truth doesn't undo it.
who cares if he's what he says he is? who the hell is? if love's based on lies does that mean it's not a real feeling? doesn't bring the same pleasure?
have you... ever cheated? well i have. you want to punish him good for you; but you can't do it without punishing the people who love him.
i always told them.
[walking in] he doesn't have cancer. biopsy shows he's got pure red cell aplasia.
cameron.
hmm. yelling. that might be a clue.
anger's not rational?
you're having fun aren't you?
professional reasons.
do you really think this is going to end well for anyone?
mmmhmm he cheated and won a game. life's more complicated than who gets to the finish line first.
my wife wasn't dying she wasn't even sick. everything was fine. i met someone who... made me feel... funny. good. and i didn't want to let that feeling go. [long silent pause] what happened to you how can anyone go through that alone? you can't control your emotions.
you didn't do it did you? you didn't sleep with him.
[smiling] you'd be surprised what you can live with. [walks out of the office]
my offer's withdrawn; you can walk to work.
how do you rationalize something like this? you broke into stacy's therapist's office--
--and stole her treatment notes!
i don't want to hear this.
it says she thinks you're an annoying jerk. [throws the notes on to a table.]
they're not having sex? [house and wilson share a look.]
great now you've got the proof you need. just take those personal psych records to cuddy that'll show her stacy's out of control. [house turns away looking for something.] you ignoring me?
err... we're not... err... together.
they test for t-cell lymphoma?
he's going into anaphylactic shock.
if you're wrong steroids will tank his immune system. he'll get worse.
if your patient's got a blood problem then blood thinners aren't exactly--
trying to win stacy back by killing an animal... very caveman.
[pinches the bridge of his nose.] if you want her back either tell her or better yet shut up and cry yourself to sleep like everybody else.
ct confirmed a mass in kalvin's heart and several smaller ones in his lungs.
[looking at cameron.] you ok?
this is classic non-hodgkin's lymphoma; hiv positive patient with a primary heart mass.
so you just show up every time he's at physio?
and when she happens to mention to mark that you dropped by?
it's a process. [sighs.] but stacy doesn't have any reason to hide this from mark. [follows house out of the office.] as far as she knows mark's okay with you being there.
because she still has feelings for you? [deadpan voice.]
in all likelihood yeah. non-hodgkins lymphoma.
we need to biopsy the tumor. it's near your aorta so getting that sample carries serious risks.
he hasn't been in?
we'll inject a dye around your heart to make the tumor visible on the ct. [cut to dad sitting by the wall of water. wilson continues as a voice over.] then a surgeon inserts a guide wire runs it up into your heart where he takes a small piece of that tumor so we can look at it under the microscope.
so now you've got to drum up another excuse to be around the love of your life. could hit another patient.
well that rules out letting the rat go so you can catch him again.
the rat is actually sick? that thing could infect the entire hospital!
yeah. remember the black death? started with rats
he just won't go in the room. who knows what else he has - parasites? bacterial infection?
not the kid the rat!
rats only sweat through their tails.
err montana. what's going on?
you snuck into her shrink's office and read her private file. when nixon did that he got impeached.
[scores a coin in house's hands.] yes! and yes.
she's only advising chase? not you?
your disdain for human interaction doesn't exculpate you it inculpates you. you sign the charts you're responsible for everything chase does.
unless her advice to chase is to make a deal and give you up. [he fakes a very bad australian accent.] i'm so sorry if only dr. house had paid attention he'd never even met her he never does.
cameron loves you. chase loves his job.
i think right now she hates you more than enough. you think emotion only affects doctors' judgments?
[pointing to foreman.] guess i'm his best friend now.
i've had people hug me and people take a swing at me.
house assisting. that is funny. too bad foreman's gonna die.
of course.
oh then no. [foreman starts to leave.] fine i won't say anything.
where is this coming from? did cuddy say something?
and you want my advice on how to usurp him? it's very ancient rome; you'll need a toga of course a sword
i'm sure he'll see it that way.
no.
no. there's no way this is going to happen. [foreman leaves.]
we have to kill all the old bone marrow before we get to the new stuff. you'll have no immune system. we'll keep you in a sterile room for two weeks to make sure everything's dead then we'll give you the donor marrow. it will take another couple weeks until it takes hold. you won't feel a thing. if you get uncomfortable for any reason and need to talk don't yell. walls are four inches thick lead. use the microphone. are you ready?
three minutes what's going on?
yeah that's a big change for you.
you couldn't live with foreman as your boss.
uhhh... [looks at the caller id.] excuse me. [picks up the phone.] hello.
[he hands the nurse a tissue and gets out of the booth he's seated in.] this may take a minute.
cuddy called you?
pulmonary edema. chase did a tox screen came back positive for amphetamines he did the dance of victory.
i thought the kids didn't call you.
foreman went to talk to stone about his drug test found him running a temperature.
you don't have call waiting?
it's five dollars a month.
do you know your phone's dead? do you ever recharge your batteries?
i thought you should know your aphasia guy is tasting metal.
6.8 he's got kidney failure. cameron's got him on dialysis and he's stable for the moment - unlike cuddy who's suicidal.
he's six minutes early.
i'm on it. [he goes after house.]
did -- did you iron your shirt?
what the hell happened in baltimore?
[nodding.] i think you just did.
there's no such thing as just a kiss.
has she left mark? is she going to?
are you planning on asking her to leave mark?
hey. this is a big deal. this is an affair. have you even talked to stacy about what the hell this means?
great. breaking up a marriage; fertile ground for high comedy. we need to talk about this. [footsteps...cameron approaching.]
this isn't just gonna go away.
hey you're the one who kissed him.
because you're married.
the last time you left i was the one stuck picking up the pieces.
he's been *pining* for five years!
no. actually i'm underplaying. this is me being restrained.
are you being intentionally thick? [she puts her pen down.] this was not just a one-night stand. you can't toy with him.
means i didn't want to see anyone. [he's rolling joints. beta comment: which is one reason why i love him.]
it's for a patient. she can't roll. [looks toward the balcony.] now lock that door too.
that depends. what did you do and who are we talking about?
i have a crazy idea: why don't you go talk to her?
she sounds confused but i don't' think she is. i think she's waiting for you to do something to show her you're serious.
i didn't say *do* her. i said do *something.*
she didn't say it was a mistake.
she left you.
house. [house turns wilson gestures 'come here' and house takes a joint from his pocket and hands it to wilson.]
people do crazy things for love.
no she surgically removed her fingerprints to cover up her pathetic lie.
do we need to talk?
what did you tell her?
huh. that's probably true.
you're an idiot. you don't think she'd be better off without you.
you have no idea why you sent her off. [house climbs down off the wall.]
this was no great sacrifice! you sent her away because you've got to be miserable.
you don't like yourself. but you do admire yourself. it's all you've got so you cling to it. you're so afraid if you change you'll lose what makes you special. being miserable doesn't make you better than anybody else house. it just makes you miserable. [wilson leaves house turns; scene ends on him.]
you've never been to one of these things in your life who is this guy?
what's with the outfit?
[looks thoughtful.] hmm! he must be good. you went to hopkins and studied under brightman and gilmar.
you were supposed to get the doyle internship. [he looks between house and weber suddenly realizing.] this guy's von lieberman?! the guy got you thrown out for cheating?
this guy's name is weber not von lieberman.
so what's the plan? you going to wait 'til he bends over then make a fart sound?
well you cheated off him how bad can he be?
uhh... you stalked this guy for 20 years just for this shot to humiliate him?
you're going to interrupt him aren't you?
and what's that going to accomplish?
you have got to find less debilitating outlets than humiliating people! i... hear bowling is more fun than stalking.
blow a ton of money on a plasma tv.
it could be. 10% would damage the cerebral cortex and have seizure.
viral encephalitis?
[mutters to house.] he knows his field better than you do.
[mutters to house.] just a lunatic who desperately needs a hobby.
[mutters.] touch<e9>.
[mutters to house.] get a hooker. anything.
[blurts out as it clicks.] the coma patient? [house gives wilson a look.]
[standing there with hands on his hips.] dr. jekyll i presume they found a half-eaten sheep in the zoo police wanna ask you a few questions.
coffee? bad idea. [he raises his voice deliberately so the volume almost sounds like shouting - obviously he's trying to torture poor house with his migraine.] you're better off with water.
[grabs the mug before house and dashes off into the conference room.] fool-proof plan by the way. either his meds would work and you'd be in psychic pain because von evil is going to be rich. or they wouldn't and you got to be in agony all day. [wilson pours a glass of water for house but takes all the teaspoons on the counter and dumps them into the sink deliberately with a loud clang. house grimaces again.] perfect lose-lose situation. very you.
you proved nothing. [he hands house the glass of water.]
yeah. dear new england journal of medicine i took this guy's drug and still got a headache thus scientifically proving that my archenemy is an idiot. you just wanted the pain.
you get distracted by pain leaves less room for the things you don't want to think about like the flyers sucking or the price of gas or... ohh the fact that you pushed the love of your life out of your life.
next time you need to get your mind off her stick a needle into your eye. it's less annoying to the rest of us when you can still walk. [wilson walks out; house grimaces once again at the sound of the blinds.]
how'd you get here?
no helmet?
and the fact that you can barely stand upright had nothing to do with it?
worsening pain could actually be a good thing means the nerves might be regenerating.
have you ever considered a career as a motivational speaker? why don't you check out some rehab?
one session and you didn't even finish that session.
at least let me get you an mri.
heard you killed your supermodel.
just for my own clarity. how many more patients do you have to kill before you admit this leg thing just might be a problem?
mri looks exactly the same as it did two years ago. nerves don't seem to be regenerating.
several researchers have proven that psychological pain can manifest as physical pain.
brilliant idea sending stacey away it's really done wonders for you.
right; giant coincidence that you've gone completely off the rails since she left; inducing migraines worsening leg pain-- (house whacks him with his cane.) ow!
it's not cancer. you seem to be back to your old miserable self.
what did you take?
if you thing it'll help the drugs will help. power of the mind.
oh come on you're just making up organs now aren't you. we checked the pancreas. obviously you've taken something.
and none of them have cancer.
there's no mass if anything they're undersized. no leukemia. no hodgkin's. we checked everything. unless they've invented a new organ it's not cancer.
my wife.
[to the guy behind the counter] fell on his head as a child tragic.
some people bottle up their feelings have them come out as physical pain. healthy human beings express feelings such as affection by giving gifts.
it's not all about sex house.
how long can you go without annoying people?
i'm not having an affair.
you sure you're right?
i was referring to your patient.
how long before you get the tests back?
that you suspect an affair? sure. she already hates you why not?
there's nothing to tell.
you always want to simplify everything. boil it down to nice easy equations nice easy answers.
[stands up suddenly] let's say you're right.
no. let us say. [house starts walking back to wilson] does it occur to you that maybe there's some deeper guidance than keep your mouth shut? that maybe a friend might value concern over glibness? that maybe... [he rubs his upper lip nervously] maybe i'm going through something that i need to have an actual conversation about?
could i stay with you for a few days?
she told me. [house is stunned into silence] things have been crappy at home lately i figured i wasn't spending enough time with her. i figured... [angry sigh] turns out you're right it's always about sex. she's been having an affair.
oh sorry did i wake you up?
excuse me for actually caring what i look like.
if you wanted in all you had to do is say so.
it's about time you got up anyway it's almost 9:00.
what?
you're kicking me out? after one night?
i'll be out of your hair tomorrow. [as he leaves] what's left of it. [house goes to the mirror and fools with his hair.]
stuffed pepper.
i found an apartment. i can move in on monday. is that fast enough for you?
well not from your kitchen. don't you ever eat anything besides canned soup and peanut butter?
[grabbling a spoon] try it. [house tries a tiny bite.] it's good isn't it?
are we talking a child or an adult?
then i'd say a lot. you'd have to eat beans every day for months. [wilson flips to house's tivo which has selected to tape/watch the o.c. spongebob monster truck jam new yankee workshop and blackadder. hee.] now why do you have a season pass to the new yankee workshop?
i was watching something!
enjoying the salad?
i'm aware that there's no lettuce. do you know when i obtained this knowledge?
when i made it. for myself.
well i was hoping this might tip you off. [points to cover which has a post-it note on it that states: my lunch do not touch!!]
i offered to make you some you said no!
you'd give your own wife herpes just to shift the blame <U+0096>
let's see i'm thinking colonel mustard in the music room with the candlestick.
same thing.
if you're right. if foreman's right you'd have basically raped an innocent woman. [sighs] my wife fired the maid. apparently she's getting rid of anything that reminds her of me.
i was nice to our maid which annoyed her god knows why.
no one was doing her all right?
i offered to keep paying her salary until she found another job but she refused to take any money without doing any work so. if you want someone to clean your apartment it's on me.
she's not moving in she's gonna clean!
yes she is quite the little actress.
cuddy called.
young girl anaphylactic shock.
turns out that's what stops the ringing. it's a weird case. [he turns to see the unwashed dishes in the sink] i thought you did the dishes last night. it was your day.
for a midnight snack you made a pot roast. the same pot roast i made last night.
you want me out of here i get it.
the place i was going to move the guy never called otherwise i'd already be there.
yeah that's why you're making me miserable.
that... [he notices it's his bottle but doesn't manage to stop house from drinking from it in time]
yeah. she's immuno-compromised.
what? you asked me--
[stares around in confusion for a few seconds] ok. [he grabs the bottle off house and walks back out of the kitchen] the allergic reaction happened while she was in a clean room.
[closes the door] where is... [house raises his eyebrow] the hooker i assume?
you said you'd hang the stethoscope if you were having sex.
no. i was waiting out there for hours!
no. well no wonder you were in the mood. this month's new jersey journal of cardiology. [he picks up the magazine on the table]
no. if you need time alone to work you just have to say so. you don't have to lie about it.
being lied to not as much fun.
you still haven't done the dishes?!
you didn't get any messages for me last week did you?
that's funny guy finally called back. place i lost? said he left 3 voicemails.
which i never got. if that wasn't clear.
you erased my messages?
you're... miserable and you're lonely and you're going to trap me here to keep me every bit as miserable and lonely too [emo moment!]
ok hey i'm obviously going through a rough patch here. your wife leaves tends to bum somebody out.
you're missing some?
you're william tell you could pick an apple off someone's head?
this isn't a college dorm!
we're not 18!
oh so this is therapy?
all right i'm finding a new place tomorrow.
well i figure you wanna shave my eyebrows while i'm asleep i wouldn't want to deprive you of that last smile.
that's right i'm here on vacation.
that's... that's... not...
cuddy needed a consult.
tick bites don't ordinarily cause anaphylactic shock.
well i don't know if the dopamine's enough. she may need an inamrinone lactate. [he says that just before house gets out the door so house can hear]
she might need stronger pressers and they don't have any in radiology.
not inamrinone could cause death. death's worse. we have to get her up to the icu.
wait!
oh i wouldn't do that.
wow. looks like somebody filed halfway through your cane while you were sleeping.
i called a divorce lawyer today.
at some point. [big pause] you might not want to sit exactly there.
20.
do you think there might be a better time to annoy me about my wife?
right.
so are you going to tell me an annoying story everytime i raise?
the chicken is still in picadilly square.
well what's going on? the way you took off something's obviously--
the patient is on life support we're about to pull the plug.
hmm... does sound like high dose cardio meds.
still waiting on the final labs.
no hydration is not a problem.
[flips his cards but only ends up having one pair] seven of clubs. [cuddy cackles]
what's going on?
well thanks to your last consult the patient has improved dramatically.
she says the patient--
well cuddy just raised and err...
what?
[momentary shock he looks around to check whether house is standing behind him or something] how do you know?
wait wha... what's going on? if you're going to mess with me wouldn't it be more fun to do it in person?
[to cuddy] erm... can you beat a pair of threes?
i left orders for po fluids doctor.
she's drinking her seltzer. [cuddy looks surprised and stops]
yes.
umm... but...
you couldn't care less about this charity event you claim not to be messing with me obviously you're either trying to keep me--
hold on. [he shoves his meagre bunch of chips forwards. cuddy looks wary wilson gazes at her challengingly]
[picks up the phone again] ohohoho! [house is staring at the whiteboard] house are you sure you're ok? [house puts down the phone on wilson suddenly]
depends on what type. could make it better could make it worse.
but um... the party's over in less than 3 hours.
you obviously want to bust me . why would you--
i'm all in. [he shoves his pile of chips into the centre]
[fakes a rather anguished face before turning over one card and then the other rather enthusiastically] oh oh oh no oh no! ohhhh that's gotta hurt. [the glee on cuddy's face turns to horror]
i just killed two birds with one straight. goodbye.
if you need help ask. these games are insane.
well i don't see anything that looks like leukemia. you do a bone marrow biopsy?
even if there is an occult blood cancer you wouldn't expect interferon to make it worse. and certainly not this fast.
or kawasaki's disease.
err the... this is a kid's x-ray.
who may or may not have had kawasaki's. this kid on the other hand he makes antibodies that are eating the inside of his arteries choking off blood to his major organs one by one. first the gi tract then the kidneys then the brain now the lungs.
you can't use another patient's labs to diagnose kawasaki's disease!
you don't have time to be wrong.
this other patient... the old lady... esther?
have you read moby dick?
it was 10 years ago.
obsession is dangerous.
you do realise it's a metaphor?
hey.
[he starts walking back to his office then turns around again to address house] i erm... i won the poker tournament. [house is immediately interested] i totally played this guy burman from business affairs. i got great cards but i don't bet. just call no raises. burman pairs his king on the flop i keep calling the river turns i check. he can't stand it. he goes all in he's sure he's won. [wilson dramatically makes hand gestures about flipping the cards] i call. i flip 'em. oh! [he looks victorious]
i nailed his ass!
so esther can rest peaceful now huh?
[peeks at his cards] forty. [they are betting with real money this time] you got lucky. you going to call?
you guessed. you got lucky.
it could just as easily have been sarcoma or tuberous sclerosis.
maybe not. but it wasn't impossible. are you going to call?
i take it you've seen that?
you read cameron's version?
it was good.
maybe. he was more analytical about the diagnostic procedures. she concentrated more on the ethical dilemmas of informed consent. how any patient can really be informed without a medical degree.
foreman should have told her.
if you allow this sort of thing in your department you're basically saying it's ok.
they won't trust each other and they won't trust you.
deception like this is just one step removed from actively sabotaging one another. then what would you do?
right. because you're all about the teaching.
which cancer were you looking for?
not going to tell you much. her blood was thick after she was given immuno-suppressants. they fight rejection they also mess up our ability to get any clear readings.
so what are your orders general house?
[walking up to him.] did you remember my dvd player?
no i get it it's a drag watching porn on vhs.
ohh forget it i'll come by and get it myself err after work thursday?
no problem still have a key; i can let myself in and out.
it's a math contest.
it's poker night isn't it? [house's guilty look confirms it as the lift dings the fact that it has arrived on the ground floor.] you said weeks ago that i could play. stop making excuses.
we can adjust your pain meds.
suppose we increase your oxycodone.
what about the trip you were talking about taking? you've wanted to see florence since you were a teenager right?
ok but you're strong. you're dealing with this. and there is the right combination of pain meds out there and we'll find it. don't give up on us. [there are rattling noises out on the balcony.] and don't be startled by the sound you're about to hear.
excuse me. i have a friend with boundary issues. [he unlocks the door and then closes it behind him.] can this wait 5 minutes?
yeah.
they could build monuments to your self-centeredness.
what are his symptoms?
you're worried about trademark infringement?
ah! and there the similarities end. why is he here?
majority of americans believe in a personal god what are his symptoms?
huge water intake would cause low sodium...
what? that's it? you solved it. you just brought me out here to rant because faith annoys you?
[running down the corridor.] grace?
hey hey! what are you... what is this? [he takes boyd's hand away and protectively puts his hands around grace's shoulders.]
[getting angrier.] well get him back to his room. now. [to grace.] are you ok?
[barging in.] house! why the hell did you let an unstable patient wander the hallways?
the last thing a terminal patient needs is to hear somebody taunt them with a cure. she was... freaked she was angry...
she says she's 'feeling better'. maybe not singing or dancing but she's feeling just a little bit happy for the first time in months.
oh that's great. and when vacation's over when she crash lands from all this denial she was dealing with her illness. now her expectations are rising and you're not the one who has to be there when all that false hope gets yanked out from under her. [he storms out.]
what are you talking about?
this is fun it's like password. keep talking; i'll jump in when i get a clue what the hell you're talking about.
you think i told him?
house aside from yelling at him to get back to his room i have never spoken to your patient.
did you know the catholic church keeps a doctor at lourdes; he hears the same thing every day. but out of the thousands of cases of people who've claimed to feel better the catholic church has only recognized a handful as miracles.
well they're a church. it's what they do.
the view is a lie and if you believe it you're going to crash so hard. let me take new images of your liver.
well if it is true you shouldn't be afraid of proving it.
why do i have the feeling you're plotting world domination?
if i can get him to agree to surgery i want in on the poker game.
you'd let him die just to keep me out?
hi. i'm doctor wilson.
house. [house crosses his arms over his chest leans against the wall and pouts.] can i ask why you don't want the tumors removed?
do you think god wants you to die?
so you... believe your son is... umm... a saint? the way i understand it one of the hallmarks of a saint is humility. now someone with true humility would consider the possibility that god hadn't chosen him for that kind of honor. well he'd consider the possibility that... he just... had an illness. [boyd and the dad exchange a look.]
i listen i have an actual conversation with people; which shockingly does raise the odds they'll be co-operative.
i took some images of grace palmeri's cancer.
[he sighs and hands house one of the scans.] her tumor's shrunk.
hello. [he's in a mcgill sweater.]
i'll raise your raise.
so did they find anything? or are you going to have to accept the fact that every now and then remissions happen?
i'll fold.
i told you i didn't tell him!
[softly.] don't.
i'm seriously saying don't. [his voice has a very serious warning tone.
so not the place.
tell them my name isn't wilson.
tell them.
[he sighs.] she'd had a bad day - pain-wise. her ride didn't show up to take her home.
yeah. she didn't have any groceries. she was too sick to go out i... figured i could afford... take a half hour and... pick her up a few things and...
yeah.
tell them!
ok yes i lied to you. i'm sorry.
lucky for you. [he walks out to get his jacket.] thanks for the game guys don't think i'll be coming back.
here we go.
why are you doing this?
oh that's crap! you're not mad because i'm risking my job. you're not even mad because i lied to you you're mad because i lied to you and you couldn't tell!
yeah that's why you didn't want me in your poker game. because when it comes to being in control gregory house leaves our faith healer kid in the dust. and that's why religious belief annoys you. because if the universe operates by abstract rules you can learn them and you can protect yourself. if a supreme being exists he can squash you anytime he wants.
think it's yours.
tuberous sclerosis doesn't cause fever.
i'll drive.
you do know that i don't actually have magical powers.
better off trying to slip some antibiotics into a meal...
go as broad as you can.
what if it's not an infection?
what if the tuberous sclerosis is guilty? it had the guns in its hands it was standing over the--
it causes everything else. what if the fever's the innocent bystander? fever could have been set off by something he picked up anywhere. could have been a bug he got here.
you think he gave her rabies?
herpes encephalitis. it would fit. seizure low sodium even the blurred vision and it would mean if you're right grace's cancer is coming back. you're not going to be able to convince them. they don't want any more tests. they don't wanna--
god said no medicine no procedures. taking off your clothes doesn't count as either of those. this one's your call.
[walking in.] well nobody's as perfect as you are. it is possible to believe in something and still fail to live up to it.
she got a little extra time out of this. not a lot.
no. she said she's happier when she believes in something bigger than she is.
faith. she's going to florence.
yeah.
i don't think that's a great idea.
[laughs.] house you are... as god made you.
how is he?
[sighs looking at house still playing with the ball.] well you've mastered another skill though. that's good.
yeah there's that.
you're being cautious. you're beingcommon. when you don't give a crap-
it's just another case huh?
how's foreman? [looks at house's laptop] you're accessing a webcam?
is that your kitchen?
you infected steve?! why didn't you just get a rat from the pet store?
so this is your plan just sit here and watch your rat all day?
as soon as he's dead.
normally you just use your patients as lab rats. it's a nice change. [pulls up a chair]
how do you know if a rat's euphoric?
steve's still acting normal no sign of contractures.
and a guard on the door. those feds are seriously paranoid.
you haven't sprinkled senokot granules on his donut his bowels would open up like the red sea.
have you seriously been down here for hours?
you've got to stop blaming cuddy for this.
that part is her fault. the part where somebody wasted his time in a basement plotting the overthrow of a government agency that one's on you.
the legionella helping?
good.
what are you going to do if he never gets sick?
why weren't you with foreman?
do the biopsy.
you figure? you're playing russian roulette but the gun's pointed at him.
oh it's dangerous. well what would people think? the reason you don't see patients is because if you know them you'll give a crap about them.
if you give a crap about them you stop making outrageous calls. if this was any other patient you'd have damned the risks and cut their head open a long time ago. [cameron enters.]
you watch the l word?
i'll pass. [house looks confused] dinner with cuddy.
she's the suck up. [they get into the lift]
she's smart. she knows if she buys me enough alcohol my defences just might be weakened.
hey i'm recently single she's single.
cuddy's trash?
red clover.
also used to treat asthma psoriasis joint pain...
our lawyers have been hired friends divvied up. oddly she didn't fight me for house.
hmm. if there had been kids maybe we would have done more of that.
listen is there anything in particular you wanted to... hospital business or...?
no. [they continue eating cuddy looks uncomfortable]
cuddy did not mention cancer.
it was a date.
pcr test.
i'm checking her saliva for cancer markers.
why are you so worried about cuddy?
because the alternative is cancer.
i stole her spoon you stole her garbage.
woah. i think i'm going to cry.
it was a date. cuddy's negative for all cancer markers. it was a date.
how would a baby have flattened villi?
celiac patients are susceptible to cancer of the stomach lining. she has malt lymphoma.
your patient won't let me touch her.
bye.
did you tell cuddy that we tested her for cancer?
and?
you tivo the l word?
i got it. [radiation tech leaves.] so why were you friends with this guy?
is he a match?
is he the dad?
you didn't run the test?
okay so either you lied or he has pictures of you being nice?
what the hell is that?
chicken mole. 21 herbs and spices. i find it very comforting you defending a man you haven't seen in years. to know my friend no matter what will always be my champion my protector.
the modesty of a true hero.
here's my theory: you're jealous. he's maturing he's accepting responsibility you're emotionally stuck at seventeen.
so then why do you care?
you're trying to end this conversation by grossing me out? i'm an oncologist. half of my patients have their skin sloughing off. why are you so worried about this guy?
so you gave him advice and she dumped him.
and you blew it?
listen oh sorry! [house is having his leg massaged which from wilson's angle looks like a different kind of service altogether.]
oh ingrid! hi. okay you feel guilty about stealing the guy's girl i get that and i'm glad. it's a good thing. but you did the paternity test. and either the paternity test comes back negative and you shove it in the guy's face or it comes back positive and you shut up and your leg starts hurting.
listen oh sorry! [house is having his leg massaged which from wilson's angle looks like a different kind of service altogether.]
really it's more helpful if you do the prescribed rehab yourself.
maybe she was a girlfriend. maybe she was just trying to jerk you around.
so they missed someone. they're not security.
they were a little busy trying to save the guy's life.
anesthesia? no it's gotta be 6 smudge. let's say you're right. it wouldn't be that uncommon after trauma after that much blood loss.
so pull yourself off the case.
you take two weeks. you recover.
the guy who sees connections between everything sees no connection between being shot and minor brain disruption?
what if it was the fact that you tore out your stitches and lost two pints of blood?
you may have been lucky. you don't catch testicular cancer early it kills. probably eroded some vessel <U+0096>
eyes popping out is a rather odd presentation.
if you could think of everything yourself you wouldn't need a team to annoy.
she was trying to help you and it worked.
you don't want a healthy leg.
if you've got a good life you're healthy you've got no reason to bitch no reason to hate life.
i didn't say it was rational. [they stop walking.] hiv testing is ninety-nine percent accurate which means there are some people who test positive who live with their own impending doom for months or years before finding out everything's okay. weirdly most of them don't react with happiness or even anger. they get depressed not because they wanted to die but because they've defined themselves by their disease. suddenly what made them them' isn't real.
no you have taken it one step further. the only way you could come to terms with your disability was to some way make it mean nothing. so you had to redefine everything. you have dismissed anything physical anything not coldly calculatingly intellectual.
because she's done nothing wrong?
yeah i am. yeah.
we were trying to help you!
if you're suffering from side effects then we can look at that and <U+0096>
you're unbelievable. even when you're out of your mind with anger and fear you still couch it in logical terms. are you hallucinating?
no i mean right now. [his voice starts to morph into jack's.] are you hallucinating?
