tired of surfing.
and neither has the job right? we still get to do crazy crap?
he has no choice. he's the boss now. he has to be professional. he has to base his decisions on what's best for the entire hospital. we can't take it personally.
you did. i'm just reading the notes on your desk. [he leans forward and grabs a piece of paper before foreman can reach it. he hands it to taub] he also wants us to spy for him.
he means it's better to do it here where we can revive him than have it happen somewhere else.
these rug burns are from last night.
we'd like to perform an exercise test re-create the stress that may have caused his symptoms.
it's his heart we're worried about. the test will monitor its rhythm so we can check for any abnormalities.
he's in too good of a shape. we need to get him to the point he was at last night.
cute. [adams smiles] i didn't mean physical stress.
we were talking about how you got the abrasions on your knees the flag football game.
i know. he's having a seizure.
myocarditis viral infection weakening the wall muscles. we need to biopsy his heart to confirm.
i'm sorry about earlier but we needed to provoke a reaction.
sure. you'll feel better and she'll feel what devastated betrayed? heartbroken. do you really want to do that to her?
but she can. all set.
the e.e.g. didn't show any abnormal brain activity.
so who cheated on you?
who says i have baggage?
i didn't quit. i took a vacation. i knew when he got out i'd get my job back.
i had faith.
no. one of the sensors came loose.
what is it?
our patient now has a mass in his neck and his body temp's been rising over the last three hours.
it's not meningitis. his neck isn't stiff and his mental status is normal.
approaching the clot. stand by for
it's his lymph nodes. the bulge wasn't caused by pus or blood. it's tissue inflammation. how can there be that much tissue
did i nick something?
i don't see any bleeding in here.
we would have had to biopsy his lymph nodes anyway to check for cancer.
not if we get him a liver transplant first and then treat him with a broad spectrum.
if you're a match but to increase our odds we'd like to get your friends and family tested as well.
out of the two donors who didn't walk out both were negative for a potential match. telling the truth may have just killed this guy.
yeah they do. maybe not as much as this guy but if people told nothing but the truth the world would probably burn down overnight.
it's 3:30 in the morning. why are you still here?
i wouldn't be doing this if i thought there was another way.
you have one lying around? 'cause he'll be dead if he doesn't get one in the next few hours.
dead is dead.
i don't. i'll be doing what you would have done a year ago. i'll be in surgery.
liver function has improved 30% buys us a few extra days before he'll need a transplant.
could explain why his symptoms appeared so rapidly.
or something you wear own use or gave him.
you're in the medical profession?
i guess i'm supposed to be the good cop. i know this is tough. but anything you can remember might help save his life.
could the corticosteroids have somehow caused it?
could be a latex allergy. started with a condom and we kept it going with our gloves and equipment.
we'll start the steroids and see if it clears up.
there's no treatment for it.
we can't give you too much pain medication or we'll make your condition worse.
what's left you cheated on your taxes?
you killed more?
try not to kill anyone else until i get back.
it's neurological. there's an aneurysm in the anterior communicating artery of his brain the area moderating impulse control and compulsion. as it grew larger so did the confessions. watch. [he clicks on the intercom] bob one of my shoes is missing from my locker.
i got lucky.
why are you up here? you have your own bathroom and office now.
why?
house is screwing with you by not screwing with you. he's watching tv and drinking martinis all night. meanwhile he's keeping you here searching for a plan that doesn't even exist. [he puts on his jacket.]
[thinks about it] me too.
either a hot tub or a sauna.
what's the action on the ex-wife?
'round-the-clock or not parenting's an impossible job. no way not to mess it up. why shouldn't taub be the one to do it?
very. the echo will show us any growths on his heart valve. most likely meds will be enough. he won't even need surgery.
(looking at ron) you're a uh
patient's heart valves are normal. it's not endocarditis. but he has a thickened pericardium which makes no sense.
histoplasmosis?
both your kids are named
no grey-turner's sign.
aplastic anemia.
mom's hla is only a 3/6 match.
that's how daddy likes to spend his time too.
are you sure there's no one on the father's side of the family? if one of them's a match that'd speed things up a lot.
his bp is dropping.
we had to stop the transfusion. patient's having an allergic reaction to donor platelets.
if we had more data on the exact type of melanoma his father had
house isn't gonna give up. just tell him about your parents or make up a lie.
it's not ridiculous. even the best-intentioned parents end up damaging their kids.
you know how i got interested in medicine? when my mother drank she couldn't handle me so she locked me in my father's study. only so many hours you can cry and bang on the door before you give up find something to read. we all have family dysfunction. that's why we're successful. to fill that hole.
white-collar crime?
why are you looking at her?
more likely the patient has a hyperammonemic problem. his liver's not cleaning out his blood. the buildup of toxins is causing everything.
can't treat for both. one requires hemodialysis the other a liver transplant and we couldn't even get the kid a marrow match.
still mad about what happened in the lab?
you claim you're not screwed up. you may even believe it. but house doesn't and i don't so you can wait till he camps out on your parents' lawn or you can admit you don't live on some higher plane and thank me later.
we got the patient's eye back in place with steroid injections but a bulging eyeball means it's not a liver problem.
swelling would have followed gravity.
renal failure lung failure heart failure all before we started chemo.
[enters] where's house?
[surprised] williams.
his assistant's name is angie. her home number is
to avoid having this conversation.
did house give you homework?
we'll check catecholamines for pheo and run an expanded opioid panel. you see what the patient says about drug use when her mother's out of the room. [he and taub leave.]
nope i'm here. where are you?
absolutely.
yeah i was saying i agreed with the other one.
[voice] i met a woman who likes her men well groomed.
another question is could the paresthesia be caused by an std? hiv-related mononeuritis multiplex.
it was fine. hurt a bit.
'cause i'm vain and shallow.
the girl i was seeing wasn't. there's nothing profound here.
still nothing?
could the bruising be caused by a physical trauma?
you've had one?
i had the nails and eyebrows done but that's it. i just needed to create a distraction though. i met a tv producer at a dinner. she asked me to appear on the medical segment. screen tested it yesterday and shot it today.
it's a one-off.
two hours ago. otherwise i'd still be lying.
she does have a boyfriend.
the nasty kind. torture rape animals.
physical trauma.
what is it?
tia. the word transient is right there in the name.
ah here we go.
chesa after giving the pics an eye or two i can confirm that lauren's surgeries cost her some big bikkies. not only was there a gut tuck nose tuck and arse tuck but her new fake norks stick out like nuts on a mutt.
the original script was
[on screen] anyone notice
[on screen] that's 'cause he's retooled the ol' todger. let's just hope no one cut the wrong wire eh? [doctor down under gestures and laughs like an idiot.]
iris has dissociative identity disorder. also known as multiple personality disorder.
it's the mind's response to a severe trauma. a person experiences something that's too difficult to accept so they create alternate personalities that don't have to accept it. some think it's quite a natural reaction.
when you say your boyfriend hit you it means you actually hit yourself.
[sitting on a stool next to iris's bed] we need you to help us with something. different alters can he different apparent symptoms. allergies paresthesia vision loss changes in blood pressure.
your symptoms are real. but some are physiological and others are psychological.
yes but we won't know what until we access her alters and compare their symptoms.
hypnosis.
who am i talking to now?
you must be somebody.
what is it?
you can't feel them? it's okay. we can fix that. do you hurt anywhere else?
but you used to hurt?
do you remember being hurt?
it wasn't a miscarriage. test shows she's still pregnant. okay cross out everything that doesn't appear in every alter.
we need to ultrasound.
i'm not seeing an embryo anywhere.
wait for it
pregnancy test only infers an embryo's existence because of elevated hcg levels.
occult choriocarcinoma which is why we didn't see it on the ultrasound.
(looking at the patient's x ray) they did a lateral view as well. no sign of a pneumothorax or deep sulcus sign.
but he's not in prison and it's kind of hard to gas a guy unless you can seal him in a room first.
they (taub and park) get to just hang out and do nothing?
(standing up) cool. i'll take taub.
nice move boss. lying to the patient.
girlfriend might not be so bad.
poison wouldn't have to be in food. have you gotten any strange letters or packages recently?
you also wouldn't have to be at work.
what if it wasn't an accident? how are things between you and your wife?
yes i am.
maybe it's not stupidity. it's a symptom. cocaine abuse can cause paranoia and chest pain.
there's a difference between an isolated riot and the fall of civilization.
[door opens] it's not cocaine. hair samples were clean.
you sure? they can be pretty hard to detect in people under 50.
what?
nice try but i'm not getting in the middle.
she's weird.
most good doctors are weird. look at house.
yeah but you're hot so it's easier to put up with. (she gives him a look) you're completely normal and a pleasure to deal with.
in a good way?
you own any guns?
but it's related to medicine. kind of.
yeah but not for protection. despite what the media would have us believe you think we live in a very safe world. you just think they're fun.
working in prison you learned criminals rarely target random strangers and you've got more money than you know what to do with so anything that seems different and fun's worth trying.
not here in the states. back home i keep a few for hunting 'roos.
they're also delicious.
totally. there's no calcification. looks like we're both wrong.
there's no sign of atelectasis or infiltrates on the chest x-ray.
where's your wife?
not a fan of guns i take it.
don't worry. i'm sure she'll understand.
need some droperidol in here!
you know what else doesn't show up in the blood work? nothing. this could be all psychiatric. an untreated schizoid disorder he's finally lost the ability to suppress.
no but digging delusions out of your skin with dirty fingernails could cause both.
i'm beginning to think we should just go with house's idea.
no i'm talking about the jell-o. at least it wouldn't be so annoying to watch.
you're an idiot.
he's anaphylaxing. get me a trach kit. scalpel. (makes a little cut in tommy's throat and inserts a trach tube.) it's not working. there's no breath sounds. it doesn't make any sense.
we got him breathing but barely.
so we've got nothing.
it is possible but
what are you doing?
hey.
you mean all of us or just us?
did taub put you up to this?
yeah well it's probably not a good idea you know with us working together.
yeah but it all right. sure. when?
sure.
[checking the file] no sign of malnutrition. tox screen is clear. s.t.d. panel was negative. [looking toward the door] and is that foreman?
squamous cell middle ear tumor could have caused the ear bleed. paraneoplastic reaction caused the breathing problems.
got house's phone. deleted all photos of you and anita.
but not guilty enough to stop seeing her.
you could probably just hide the porn in your underwear drawer.
fungal infection's off the table. what about transverse myelitis?
vasculitis fits.
because people never lie about people they hate. big sinus bleed could be sinusitis and a bleeding disorder.
no. but i don't think that's gonna change your opinion because people don't change.
yeah it is. but we haven't reached the stomach yet. i'm still high in the esophagus. means it's not zollinger-ellison.
we need to lavage before she drowns in her own blood.
cauterized the ulcer stopped the bleeding.
explains esophageal ulcers and her other symptoms.
peek-a-boo! [babies laugh]
probably just got sick of lying. look at it this way. now the sex is both commitment- and guilt-free. [switches to baby talk voice and turns to the girls] and men love commitment-free sex. yes they do. oh yes they do! [taub bangs a bottle on counter. chase talks to him in his normal voice.] they're gonna find out eventually. peek-a-boo! peek-a-boo!
first off be a decent empathetic person. [to foreman] this is what you said you wanted but you're actually more upset now that her husband knows.
looks like you're gonna need a bigger rationalization. [back to the babies] ahh peek-a-boo! [baby laughs] peek-a-boo!
get me a micro-vascular clip tray as well as the occlusion.
her bp's dropping. start her on pressors. we gotta get her bp up before her organs start shutting down.
you're letting in the flies. and she needs an lvad.
[batting a copy of the file away before it hits park in the face] he's hypokalemic. could indicate a problem with his heart which would
seriously house?
[through his lab coat sleeve which he is holding to his nose and mouth] it might help if we knew the question.
i think you're right about the strep. [tucks his tie into his shirt] can't hurt to biopsy the rash while we're waiting.
draw up a little anesthetic.
you're in a hospital. calm down.
[groggy] could you guys keep it down?
did i have an epidural?
'cause i can't feel my legs.
yeah.
[taking off his oxygen mask] i know who you are.
well it's not like i can get up and run away. wasn't my best joke.
i dyed it back.
it was a prank. it wasn't uncommon.
may i ask why that matters? are you trying to prove that i was distracted that my judgment was compromised?
again why does it matter?
i don't think it was anyone's fault. i was angry but i wasn't distracted. and i think that if there's any chance i'm gonna walk again it's because dr. house is a genius.
i just said i don't feel anything. objectivity house. [the team looks stumped. house looks scared.] what about posttraumatic syringomyelia? syrinx formed in the subarachnoid space blocking the flow of cerebrospinal fluid.
that could be fixable.
and if it's not a clot?
there.
can i see the monitor?
there it is.
he wasn't trying to pull anybody away. everyone had already refused to work on that case. he knew the answer. he wanted to check on me. but he needed an excuse. otherwise he could be accused of caring.
what?
i thought i was right about the rash. i would do it again.
what that's it? i thought so? what the hell does that mean?
why'd i even have to? what was the point of the orange hair?
you couldn't just ask me to stop being late?
none of this is fun house.
anything else? i'm kind of busy.
[to the therapist] i've got it.
good morning.
i am a doctor. that didn't come up last night?
i'm good.
i was stabbed by a patient. that'll teach me to overbill.
what do you want?
(interrupting) does this look like a good time?
those times i just didn't feel like talking to you. kinda like now.
i don't know when i'm coming back. i don't know if i'm coming back. got a problem with that fire me.
believe me i'd rather be the guy with the clipboard.
arrhythmias are gone. fine motor control is improving.
i'm fine.
what getting knifed doesn't buy me an extension?
any other symptoms? chest pain? lightheadedness?
what were you doing when the pain came on?
a couple of possibilities. you have enlarged lymph nodes so i'd like to start by ruling out breast cancer. and i do mean rule out. it's probably nothing. (to sister joan) i'm gonna do a quick breast exam. do you mind stepping out for a moment?
(picking up moira's chart) that was so i could ask about the second possibility. left-sided pain means it could be angina which is made worse by stress. might not be a coincidence that the pain started on the verge of a major life change.
blue veil means you're a postulant haven't taken your vows yet. brown vestments means you're carmelites cloistered nuns which explains the chaperone. (he pulls two latex gloves from a wall dispenser) you're about to withdraw from the world for good. i was a seminarian.
(pulling on the gloves) cassock made my ass look fat. (moira laughs) do you mind unbuttoning your shirt and lying down for me?
a life of perpetual enclosure and almost complete silence? if you weren't wrestling with this i'd say there's something really wrong with you.
i'm going to admit you. there's a little mass here and i'd like to get it checked out.
stress test too. it's not angina. so why the shoulder pain?
(to wilson) thanks a lot.
better. heard your arm's healing nicely.
she was next up in the clinic. (taking the file from house) and i don't want your help.
maybe i was an idiot before and i'm not one now.
(looking back at wilson) thanks for all your help.
it's part of the job.
(stopping to face her) you asking me out on a date?
just knowing you're there for me is enough. thanks. (chase leaves park standing in the hallway)
i've surfed all over the gold coast. don't tell me you have?
if you don't mind me asking why are you becoming a nun?
well i know that jesus walked on water but (moira giggles) plus the average postulant is a lot younger than you. what were you doing before this?
and then what? god spoke to you? you heard the calling?
usually yeah.
mom drank dad worked. they stuck me in catholic school. priests and nuns were the closest i had to family. turned out that wasn't much of a reason to join the priesthood.
something like that.
not a fungal infection.
i'm not.
(interrupting) i need help with my patient. she's vomiting. that's not from a fungal infection.
i have no idea. almost dying's been clarifying. i can do anything.
can we get to my patient sometime soon?
you'll help me. 'cause even though you don't find my case interesting you find my interest in it interesting.
can't be bilirubin's normal.
it means i've got to spend more time consulting with a colleague.
i need more help. my patient has a new symptom. ischemic foot. get the lecture out of your system so we can talk about my case.
okay i'm curious.
if you get him what's that gonna prove?
her d-dimer's normal.
that explains everything but the lymph nodes. and any minor infection
i almost got you killed by bringing a scalpel into that room. i could feel better about that.
can't change what happened. can only make better choices from here.
i'm okay. just knowing you're there for me is enough. (he sighs as the elevator doors close)
convent lets you have this?
you're using an ipod. but i've never seen you use rosary beads.
what day did jesus die?
how many times did the cock crow before peter's third denial? once or twice?
why? because it's so strong even plain contradictions
no one joins the clergy without having that epiphany. that god's love is speaking to you directly.
that's not an answer. if you want silence you can get ear plugs.
ever been married?
no kids. you never found a career. doesn't sound like the outside world got much of a try. what you're headed towards now 14 hours a day in silent prayer never having a family never touching another human being.
(shaking his head) nothing's wrong with having fun.
is that why you wanna be a nun? someone broke your heart?
so am i.
i'm late for work in the clinic.
really? george washingbaum?
the self-defense classes you think they're making any kind of difference?
(tossing down the chart) note to self.
foot color's good. arterial pulse is good. capillary refill's good.
looks like your ready to gohome.
i'd say i'm in the book but not the one you'll be reading from now on.
that could have happened to anyone.
you shouldn't. (chase limps across the room to stand in front of moira) you shouldn't run from what can still be a good life.
not by hiding myself away. i hope it works out for you.
(tossing the chart on the counter) you think i'm hitting on a nun? angry at god or i just need a challenge?
i'm not emotionally involved with her. and much as i'd love to hear you contradict me i have a 7:30 appointment to explore my intimacy issues at la scala. (house stops and chase leaves him behind)
(pausing for a second) unfortunately yeah. sorry. (he sits back in his chair looking uncomfortable)
you're not supposed to be here. or anywhere.
oh now you're shy.
so are we gonna spend the rest of eternity in a lake of fire while pointy-tailed demons poke at us with sticks?
i'm not not the relationship type. i was married once.
(he strokes her hair) so what's next for you?
as long as you keep dealing with your doubts in the same way then moira?
(looking concerned and struggling into a more upright position) your neck.
are your ears ringing?
we've got to get you back to the hospital right away.
the artery that's bringing blood to your brain it's coming apart. means you could stroke. i've paged a team of our best doctors.
it's clotted up.
we're almost there.
(to park) get me her o-two level. what are you doing?
for what?
i don't need an a.b.g. just get a pulse ox. (park looks confused) i'll do it. grab a consent form. (to park) go! (to moira) we need to operate right now okay?
repeat this: no ifs ands or buts about it.
get her into o.r. eleven.
carotid dissection four-inch pulsatile mass in her neck and some broca's aphasia. it's got to be a clot keeping her from bleeding out.
bounding four-plus. it was a three-plus 20 minutes ago.
former to both.
clot's broken. bring her in and pack her nose. i'm gonna need number three vicryls. (to moira) i'm gonna fix this.
kapur and carlyle are unavailable. reilly's done far fewer dissections than i have.
i spent the night with her. doesn't change how i make an incision.
vascular clamp.
it'd take a half hour to set up.
she's already got neurological symptoms. we wait 30 minutes she'll definitely have brain damage.
she's not going to die. if i get this done in five minutes she won't stroke out.
(firmly) vascular clamp.
occlusion time 9:46 and 24 seconds. vascular scissors.
ultrasound.
good flow. lighten the anesthesia.
no.
(to moira) can you hear me? (she nods) repeat this: no ifs ands or buts.
(stopping to face her) you're scared aren't you? that's why you wanted companionship. that's why you cried out when house shot at taub. what exactly are you scared of? a needle stick? some other nut pulling a scalpel?
it sucks that there was a stabbing. but you'll get over it.
you weren't even there.
i was in the room. that was pure luck too. i get that you're scared and guilty. you're still a doctor. i don't have time to teach you to act like one.
we removed the artery. i found nodules.
negative a.n.a. (house gets up) where are you going?
can we talk about my patient?
plan's to cure her.
syphilis.
tertiary syphilis means you've had the disease for at least that long.
probably not contagious at this point.
it's unlikely. why?
what did he say?
i think it should give you solace help you to move on.
i saved her from brain damage. you think my judgment's the least bit compromised?
this is about you covering your own ass.
house can dance all over the rules gets me knifed and he gets a pass. i break a rule no one gets hurt but you kick me off my own case?
(angrily) i took that scalpel for you.
i need to get away from house and everything that reminds me of him.
checked the anesthesia sheet pressure was fine throughout. thrombus?
wilson said it wasn't cancer.
sarcoidosis.
highly insensitive for sarcoid.
then we've got to biopsy.
within hours.
there's always chemo.
could extend your life.
i'll be here as much as you need.
mary knoller. wife of the groundskeeper. he caught me with her got me with a rake. those scars on my ass you may have noticed.
because it was so shallow. i wasn't exactly wrestling with great theological questions.
i always wanted to believe. it would have made my life a lot easier. it never took.
are you having trouble talking like before?
where?
i'll be right back.
(to taub as he turns the corner) house finally got you.
i gotta go.
she has jaw claudication. if you only heard claudication and carotid dissection
she's gonna live.
(limping over to the bed) and when you do i'm gonna take you to puerto escondido.
the mexican pipeline. early may is when the surf really picks up but what's wrong?
you're going back?
when you saw the boy.
it's not real.
you felt oxygen depravation. you felt your brain releasing noradrenaline.
i wanted you to move on with your life. i wanted to reassure you. i wanted you to feel better.
now i think i love you.
she did. she wants to go back to the monastery.
because i found someone i love?
her feelings are based on a chemical process. they're gonna wear off.
(picking up his printout and moving toward the door) she's throwing away her life because of blind faith.
how many times have you thrown the truth in people's faces?
(angrily) this has nothing to do with the truth. you don't like that i'm reassessing my life that i want to change it that i can.
you're incapable of human connection so you want everyone to be like you.
don't look at the book.
what's the first step?
where?
i'm happy i knew you.
diphtheria paralyzing the ocular muscles?
patient makes a living telling men to behave more like women. i'm surprised you didn't throw psych symptoms into the differential. either way could be a cerebral avm.
cephalic fibromuscular dysplasia?
why?
his wife.
you don't want to do that. might need your dignity later in life.
it's not a plumbing problem. means it's probably neurological.
[pulling some papers to him] and name dominika's three brothers.
it's fedir.
[reading] mykola is dominika's uncle?
there is no pack. she's the only applicant.
just seems like it should go to someone with more seniority.
i said more not most.
i wonder who that right person could be.
just tell house to drop the whole team leader thing. that's the only way it'll go away.
yeah. house is doing this because of his great love of structure not because he wants us to turn on each other.
as long as it's not adams. she sees the whole thing as an opportunity to remake the department in her image. or park for obvious reasons. and taub's got the kids. he's pretty busy.
i don't want the job.
check it out. simpson traded this in exchange for me helping out on some of my days off.
probably.
you're giving up?
we'll be right back. [he backs out and gestures for park to follow him.] i could use the money? you want to game me you gotta do better than that.
you want to be a leader you have to know how to manipulate. you can't just spill<U+0097>
jaundice.
liver function tests confirm his enzymes are totally out of whack.
just until i realized our patient has no sign of parenchymal lung abnormalities which makes sarcoidosis a long shot. and bookkeeping isn't gonna get you any farther than boobs.
so your theory is that he has two unrelated diseases. and he's already got low testosterone. i seem to remember something about house hating coincidences.
10% of cases present without a rash.
something bothering you?
sorry. things can get pretty hectic.
testosterone can give you a shorter temper even when you're not sick. you noticed and adjusted. that's a good thing.
give him time. when i was 14 there was a girl i wanted to impress so i jumped off the roof of her house. broke my ankle. joe's basically going through puberty. it'll take him a while to adjust.
because he's only been on the antibiotics overnight.
with his low platelet count a biopsy puts him at risk for an abdominal bleed which puts him at risk of death.
could be whipple's.
doesn't explain the double vision. [to house] any time you want to jump in.
in this country he's about as likely to get that as win powerball.
can we just get this over with?
and don't really care. auditory hallucinations and disorientation could be signs of schizophrenia.
[closing the door behind him] which is only one possibility. i'm doctor chase. uh we'd like to discuss your case with you privately.
they can be mild. like a loss of concentration or a muscle tremor.
her point was you may not have realized you were having a seizure but maybe your girlfriend has?
if that's true then you shouldn't have a problem passing our test.
environmental? could be heavy metal poisoning or radiation exposure.
expect an actual answer this time?
an oral infection doesn't explain his disorientation and auditory hallucinations.
i need 10 milligrams of benzodiazepine.
and i'm taking it off because it doesn't explain losing his teeth.
coincidence. buying that house?
you pretty much look the same as you always do.
how many times?
we need to know where you bought it so we can find out what was in it.
we just need to talk to the one who supplied the drugs.
you've been working for house for months and just now realized that disabled people can also be dicks?
the break was her idea.
he's a scared sick blind kid who doesn't want to be alone. you really don't get that?
what is it?
a dark spot doesn't necessarily equal brain damage. it could be a congenital malformation connected with his blindness or a tumor.
exactly. we need to do another scan but inject dye and figure out<U+0097>
if left untreated it leads to cerebral edema and death. but what causes that and tooth loss?
there's fresh scarring and swelling in both fundi and a bleed on the left. house was right. it's behcet's syndrome.
that's a little out of our jurisdiction. we need to wrap a dressing over your eyes to keep the light out.
you might not see it but your tissue does. it'll also help with the swelling. i'll leave you in dr. adams' capable hands. [leaves]
[looks around to see who else is there] are you talking to me or writing a facebook post?
so you're back on his side?
i'm sure that's exactly what disabled people want to be treated like completely foreign entities incapable of being judged and understood. [looks at the monitor] park was right about the clot. hopefully the anticoagulants keep it from killing him.
it's not behcet's. it doesn't necrotize tissue like this. i think it's streptococcus pyogenes.
just means it's drug-resistant. we need to remove what's left of his eyes before the gangrene sets in.
a fungal infection spreading this fast?
typhus?
you began to suspect he was off when he didn't notice the mug you stole to see if he was off? what else didn't he notice that you don't want us to notice?
who was he? or better yet she?
no we shouldn't. if you believe house is sick it's only because that's what he wants you to believe.
just because he's got abdominal bruising doesn't mean he wasn't faking the numbness.
pancreatitis. gallstones obstructing his pancreatic duct.
your friends out there are getting a little handsy.
lateral view looks good. if you have such a negative opinion of the army why did you enlist?
then why would you leak that video?
(looking at brant's catheter bag which contains red urine) he's got urinary bleeding.
call the blood bank.
his spleen must be sequestering platelets.
we need to squeeze his spleen to release the ones he's got. tell the o.r. we're on our way.
almost there.
good news is we can control the bleeding. bad news is bleeding's not the problem. unless spleens are supposed to be lumpy.
ppd's negative. could be bru<U+0097>
sorry house. sarcoid does explain the seizures.
you really think it's a coincidence that we're treating a whistleblower and now talking about blowing the whistle on house? you're right. playing dumb messy signature losing a video game <U+0097> it's way too complicated to fake.
what if we convinced a court that his refusal is part of an underlying psychiatric disorder? they assign a conservator. we do what we want.
narcissistic personality disorder. both the leaking of the tape and the refusal of treatment indicate that he has no fear of consequences.
the patient was refusing treatment because of honor and his brother is refusing to be his conservator because of honor.
we could treat if he doesn't know he's being treated. lace his sponge bath?
a signed order from major mathewson. they've agreed to declassify the redacted pages from your father's service record. in two days you'll have all your answers.
selfishness is apparently honorable now. he wanted to create change. instead he's just satisfying his own curiosity.
cognitive impairment will get progressively worse.
army tests for gpd deficiency.
if you're not sick then our test accurate 99.5% of the time yielded a false positive three separate times. the odds of that are in 1 in 8 million.
you'd still diagnose hepatic encephalopathy. i know that because four doctors you trained have unanimously diagnosed you with hepatic encephalopathy.
we'll have a stronger argument if we have an argument. if house is sick it's his business not foreman's.
telling foreman will put lives at risk. we tell foreman house either agrees to treatment or get suspended which means house gets suspended. and considering house at 90% is better than any other doctor at this hospital at 100% that means our patients get a lower standard of care.
and until we do there's no reason to do anything more than what we've done.
our treatment for bernard soulier hasn't had time<U+0097>
we're not gonna give him the antithyroids.
feeling okay? any better?
for how long?
it's not bernard soulier.
unlikely without pneumonia.
i did.
we did an echo. his valves look good. what about<U+0097> (he interrupts himself as he observes house taking candy bars out of the large drink cup) you bastard. you were faking. (he puts his head in his hands then looking up explains to the team) yesterday house stole candy by putting it into a cup. the cup was too small so his solution was to remove some of the candy. but the obviously logical thing was to just get a bigger cup which he did today because he's no longer faking.
and my punishment will be nothing. you wanted me to tell foreman. your ability to solve puzzles is the only thing that matters to you. and you're smart enough to know even you'll lose your edge at some point. you want to make sure someone's there when you do.
sarcoidosis. nodules could be too small to show up on an x-ray. fighting's the best part of hockey. without it you've got the ice capades.
cheerleading's the best part of basketball. without it you've got basketball.
well you could kill popo instead.
and only if there was some solution someplace where you could live that's not there.
okay. then stay. and maybe you consider not bitching about it?
don't worry. when you lose your family you'll have it too.
look at that.
i know. but he's gotten it supersized.
we should get an ultrasound for dvt and wbc for leukemia.
liver failure could alter hormone levels cause abnormal breast development.
could be hemochromatosis.
at least you're free. going to get your own place?
if you want you can crash at my place in the spare bedroom.
i live in an apartment not a dungeon.
your bedroom door has a lock on the inside. [park looks at an athletic cup she pulled from a bag. she quickly drops it.] hey if you prefer your car be my guest.
popo i presume.
we've met. [quietly] i thought the whole point of this was to get away from popo.
i'm not worried because it's not my issue. [looks at popo] she seems awfully quiet.
[what???] yes?
i was doing something nice.
three reported concussions. these guys are taught in high school how to dupe the tests.
it's not guilt. park is a friend.
he agreed once i promised him anonymity. [hands taub a file] mr. and mrs. doe liked the name john apparently. unfortunately we just wasted his time and proved house right.
that's an artifact.
patient's stroking out.
he's only 22.
microscopic polyangiitis fits.
we need to run an anca panel to confirm first. putting him on plasmapheresis could make him bleed out.
cribbage. i played with park's popo.
grandmother. als could explain the symptoms.
park's a friend. popo's fun.
prion disease could explain the waxing and waning symptoms.
that's a shame.
she's not sleeping with me either right?
[confessing] maybe you've got too much and i've got too little.
nope! [he is the only one to turn around and start reading the file.]
you're interviewing hookers but not gonna talk to them about sex?
if henry's got it we can treat it with a combo of drugs and surgery. success rate is over 70%.
well this is not exactly a crack den.
to amy. i love you.
it's good you're playing it cool with house. once he gets a rise out of someone
you're not seeing anyone i take it.
you volunteer every night and every weekend? no time to grab dinner?
with that rationale none of us should ever eat again.
that or he killed her. pulse?
i'll call the coroner.
we're not here to judge anyone's fetish.
so you don't have sex with her?
have you ever tried an actual<U+0097>
you're swelling.
i'm not sure about that last one. i think he's just weird. he wasn't hallucinating. he didn't have a thought disorder.
it's not all that different from talking to your cat or a teddy bear.
he's not wrong.
i have meaningless sex with random strangers. thanks for the insight but i stopped that months ago. i actually had a relationship.
my dating is getting in the way of my dating?
i feel like the stirrups are overkill.
what house said back there<U+0097>
i don't just date whoever shows up. i mean i did meet women in the hospital but they weren't just flings.
that's not what i was <U+0097> did you want me to ask you out?
he said he just bathed her. [he checks out the doll's side] adams there's a swelling beneath the skin 3-inch mass.
it feels like a tumor.
this guy brushes her hair every morning brings home movies for them to watch together. you think he tosses her in a broom closet at the end of each day?
how about clostridium? bacteria got trapped in the airtight cavity produced gas
we can explain that the same way we explain the tooth fairy.
we can't just destroy the patient's property. that thing cost 7 grand.
should we take her to the procedure room?
adams you can know something's not real and still love it. [he points at henry he is crying.]
echo shows normal heart function. could be high output failure from anemia.
nope.
pushing lorazepam. if it wasn't neurological before it sure is now.
serologies were negative.
i'm making coffee. and sometimes i date co-workers. like everyone else on the planet.
it would if liver failure opened pulmonary av shunts.
an amoebic infection would cause fever and meningitis.
adams said his ex-girlfriend was a yoga instructor.
yoga nuts are way more likely to be into alternative medicine. he has this little weird teapot in his house.
um little. weird. teapot-ish.
yeah.
see you tomorrow.
yeah.
what was he dreaming about?
if the nightmare's scary enough meaningful or not it could cause a catecholamine surge and ventricular fibrillation. an ancient demon called a dab was sitting on him strangling him. i think that qualifies.
do you believe a spirit could be hurting your son?
because if he's been taught to believe that it is possible for the fear alone to affect heart function.
i'm sorry i didn't mean to i just had to check.
no.
the heart thing indicates a malignant arrhythmia. he needs an e.p. study.
none but<U+0097>
really?
we work together every day usually under a fair amount of stress. it's only natural i'd pop into a subconscious thought every once in a while.
no.
no i didn't. you think i'm lying?
so if i snap it's offensive and if i don't snap it's offensive for the exact same reason?
this is becoming weird because you're making it weird.
i work with you. i don't have to answer that question.
we should biopsy his thyroid.
hashimoto's thyroiditis would explain his lung heart and intestinal involvement. and if you think we still need house's approval it also explains dying in your sleep.
seizure rules out hashimoto's.
whatever it was preceded a seizure. it's obviously a neurological symptom.
so we should start treating<U+0097>
um i'm looking at her.
with treatment it's manageable. and it explains all the things that have happened to him?
we think so.
neurological issues can cause a person to speak in tongues speak with an accent<U+0097>
in times of stress our senses can fool us into believing<U+0097>
i'm sorry if your son suffered from mental illness.
please don't scare the boy. it won't help him get better.
her dream doesn't mean anything. can we start acting like it doesn't mean anything?
back to avoiding eye contact with me? house got to you again?
i want you to treat me like a friend which means getting over the fact that you like me more than i like you.
[approaching her] too bad i'm not attracted to androgyny and self-pity or you'd have it made.
bitch.
why didn't your lips move when you said that?
i'll be right there.
[to park] he could've just been arching his back off the bed.
but hypocalcemia could and the enema we administered to cure his constipation had a high phosphorous load which could make him transiently hypocalcemic.
dreams don't mean anything.
if we don't start and he has another seizure the neurological damage could be permanent.
a day ago you were insulted i'd even think you might believe that stuff and now you're willing to stop all treatment so you can try it?
genetic tests for brugada and long qt variants came back negative.
i'm sorry do we not treat idiots? because i thought<U+0097>
what about kawasaki? it explains the irregular heartbeat respiratory distress and seizures.
you're not gonna let us save an eight-year-old because one more person might embrace religion?
[he grins slightly.] doesn't mean anything. idea got planted. it was probably inevitable. [he pushes for the elevator again.]
what?
[nods] maybe.
(looking at the file) elizabeth lawson. emily lawson.
or she won't eric.
primary raynaud's? the cold inside the mri room could have set it off.
lupus is a better fit.
i thought you said you were here as a doctor.
she's the mother. so let's treat her like any other mother.
i think we just hit the environmental mother lode. funny she never mentioned an entire basement full of dangerous chemicals and drugs.
yeah. apparently a lot.
read about it. it's an experimental aminoglycoside antibiotic. supposedly it can override dna errors in the atm gene.
how? you see any lab rats down here? the only cage i see is right there. (they both look at the makeshift playpen in the corner)
the only environmental factors we think caused your daughter's illness are the ones you shot her full of.
she needs an ultrasound guided renal biopsy to check the damage. hopefully it's reversible. (chase and adams leave. elizabeth looks devastated)
kidney number one looks good. which means we'll probably take the biopsy from two.
pretty cool eh? you want to try?
it's definitely not her kidneys.
her kidneys are fine. i don't think we're looking at side effects from the lex-2.
stop it. your daughter deserves better than this.
(to emily) you want to get some candy?
what are we missing?
he said advanced. we wouldn't pick it up in her blood if it's in her organs and nervous system now. it fits everything but the nosebleed.
we need to start her on amoxicillin. (chase leaves)
we think it's lyme.
i don't know. i'm sure they love each other but<U+0097>
just keep your arms up for me.
she's having a stroke.
stroke. blockage in her hepatic vein coughing blood trouble breathing and raynaud's.
what mimics a clot but isn't a clot?
we're on our own here so just give me some theories we can use.
not cancer. but a tumor could act like a clot. an atrial myxoma.
a primary heart tumor. the swinging motion of the myxoma intermittently blocked the flow of blood through the right atrium. inflow blockage stagnated the hepatic vein which clotted and caused liver failure. outflow blockage caused the raynaud's phenomenon and stroke. pieces of the tumor broke off and lodged in the lungs causing emily's breathing problems and the coughing blood. we'll remove the tumor surgically and hopefully the biopsy reveals it's benign.
the tumor was benign.
have you been to the aquarium? it's pretty cool.
i don't hate him. he hates me.
what if he got something from a cadaver?
no just his last one. [reading on the screen.] she had bad knees. she used dimethyl sulfoxide for joint pain. current from the defibrillator could've converted it to dimethyl sulfate. when treiber cut into her her blood released toxic fumes.
don't worry. we're simply carrying out his direct orders.
right you were hired to diagnose people after they're already dead.
no clots.
abdominal pain and distention means we were wrong about stimulant psychosis.
what about ulcerative colitis? earlier attacks caused thrombosis<U+0097>
wherever they are they don't want to be disturbed.
house just took himself off the case. you said no bowel sounds when you examined him. no like diminished or none at all?
if it is it could mean cancer's behind everything. let's get a plain film of his abdomen.
only if he knows it wasn't.
we're adults with advanced medical training not children left alone with scissors. it's one x-ray. [he gets out of the office leaving his teammates behind.]
sometimes house is wrong.
we can do a contrast enema if you need more proof.
we'll let house know how you feel.
fine. [he turns off the screen and heads for the door.]
you'll find out when you wake up. if you really think i'm a good doctor why do you treat me like an idiot?
no.
that was almost ten years ago.
how long do you think you'll work for house?
when house was in prison you worked at mercy in plastics right? know what i did? surfed. for nine months.
a fellowship's supposed to train you to stand on your own. foreman's dean of the hospital cameron's head of emergency medicine in chicago.
look at this. the small intestine. [he is holding it in his hands.]
no.
he's in the middle of an attack. the longer we wait to treat with hemin the more damage it causes.
it's only an issue if we're wrong.
same principle. [he leaves the room.]
i know the anesthesia makes it hard to focus but we need to start you on hemin right away. [treiber stares at chase.] house believes very strongly. this is the right call.
we're gonna need to put in a chest tube.
we don't know.
porphyria was a legitimate call.
we've done everything house would've done if he'd been here.
fine. [he gets up to leave but foreman stops him.]
i disagree. i was wrong about the porphyria but i wasn't wrong about the nervous system. it's a prion disease. that's why his symptoms have progressed so rapidly.
maybe the problem is he thinks the same thing. his job's built on the premise that doctors make mistakes; that includes him. we should do a brain biopsy.
then we biopsy the brains in the morgue. find the one that exposed him.
there's four of us. come on we can at least start him on amphotericin to halt the progress while you do your heart biopsy.
busy.
so it's not a prion disease.
so he can tell us all it's an infection?
treiber can only see me as not house. foreman too. and they're not wrong.
no. and when this case is over i'm quitting.
you here as my boss or my friend?
i've learned a lot here. enough to run my own team. it's time i moved on. unfortunately that's how i felt last year. and the year before that.
you didn't come down here as my boss or my friend. you came down as house. you're trying to insult me into making a decision.
i'm not.
don't have to. [he gets up and crosses out all the solutions on the board.] treiber's reports are thorough to a fault. his methods are fastidious. the answer isn't down here. [he moves to the other side of the room to wash his hands.] treiber didn't miss anything. we did.
soap. it's the soap. [he holds up the bottle of soap puts it down on the counter and exits without a word leaving the team behind.]
we found out who screwed up. you. it was your industrial-strength antibacterial soap. [holding the bottle of soap.] the additional triclosan does two things well: kills mrsa and makes your thyroid look stupid. it thinks the triclosan is a real hormone and closes up shop. excessive use over time combined with excessive use of this led to hypothyroidism. which went undiagnosed until it presented with psychosis. when the er put you on the sedatives it kicked you into myxedema crisis.
house told us to look for irony.
my locker key.
thanks. but it's time to step out of the shadow.
any news?
i came to say thank you.
fun?
he wasn't always easy to deal with.
