cell and home phone are disconnected. apartment's already been vacated. and what's with the death's head cane?
you called us back to work because a lady might have had a seizure.
why does he get the night off?
i have plans with my wife.
any history of seizures before today?
you're evading every question we ask.
that.
committing a suicidal gesture says otherwise.
we're just trying to help you.
and back to being evasive.
what the hell?
she also admitted she tried to kill herself but won't tell us why.
we can't. she wants a female doctor.
if you're seeing things it could be another symptom.
we're wasting time which is her main goal here. (to alice) need your arm for this.
not even close.
bp and heart rate are spiking.
i didn't give it to her yet.
we also caught her talking to herself. she could be delusional.
a pheochromocytoma.
have i mentioned we don't care?
it's not our fault. she signed the consent forms denied there was any metal...
longer if she doesn't stop lying to us. or we could figure out a way to find it in the 39 hours left on her psych hold.
we finished analyzing the pet scans from last night. there's no sign of a tumor.
if she told us her symptoms where it hurts when the pain first started we could at least focus on a specific area.
great. you finish reading your typewriter ribbon yet?
which wasn't there last night when we did the pet scan.
people who want to sell you the 11th.
if we add those to the symptoms we've seen and the pericardial effusion... it's lupus.
what if you're not?
at least not completely. post traumatic syringomyelia from a 15-year-old car crash. slowly growing over the years pressing against her spinal column. causes pain fluctuating blood pressure seizures.
we find it and remove it. she should be able to regain full function.
we're dead on our feet. i've barely slept in four days.
she kicked us out.
everybody lies.
no none of us were thinking that.
could be lead poi <U+0097>
at the risk of having foreman snark at me too lead poisoning could also work.
yeah i was looking around in the corner over there. i found a question about why you have a problem with our new doctor.
dude is this about thirteen?
maybe it's hard seeing house replace her when you've still got feelings.
it felt right. [shrugs]
cleaning job in summit then she went straight home.
supraventricular tachycardia. 150 bpm.
not responding.
we've tried already.
get the pacemaker. we can overdrive her.
her ex poisoned her dog.
that's the theory.
is that? that's baby chase and his mama! that's adorable!
they do actually look alike.
no.
yeah.
abscess.
chase
her temperature's normal.
we took her off an hour ago. she should be febrile again.
could it be legionnaire's and our treatment worked?
malaria. dengue.
the fever was brief. sounds like a reaction to the medication the antibiotics.
not since she was admitted.
full term and they gave her surfactant. looks like they're fully developed.
the sperm donor card from the father did note a history of asthma.
believe it or not breathing problems can be caused by a liver problem.
probably an abscess. if we find it with the ultrasound we can drain it make her better. you'll be able to take her home by the end of the week.
echogenic area in the liver. can you make it out?
lift her left shoulder so we can get a better look.
you were right about the liver. on ultrasound we found intrahepatic dilated bile ducts. extrahepatic ducts were normal.
no. [long pause. he's leans closer to the phone] are... you okay?
surgery? [he glances from chase to foreman in disbelief] this is a newborn with liver failure. she's oozing blood from every puncture site. it's insanely risky to open her up.
and mobilizing the distal end for cannulation.
i haven't started yet!
nice. i'm in the common bile duct.
i was barely in.this doesn't make sense.
so what do you guys think of dr. cheng?
i didn't mean think-think. i meant think as a... potential hire.
so what was that shrug? a dr.-cheng-could-work shrug? or a house-is-gonna-crush-you-for-even-considering-her shrug? [chase shrugs again. taub is irritated] ...you suck.
so you think i should abstain? just give the decision back to him? [foreman can be seen in the background trying to contact house]
unless... house feels like hiring her is his idea...
round two. did justine go home? [abbey gets up from her chair]
so... you two are close?
she's pinker.
that's good. ...that's very good.
i think it's long overdue.
looks like it was a vascular malformation. the grogan baby is better.
[sits down] ...it is a good job. [cheng nods] diagnostics. solve a mystery save a life. but i suppose you're pretty attached to pediatrics?
would you be interested?
it's possible you won't need to interview. [cheng looks at him questioningly]
[exasperated] dr. cheng... is the nicu attending on the case. and she's not here.
she spotted a vascular malformation in the baby's liver.
in fairness it wasn't completely her idea. more of a foreman kinda thing. [foreman looks indignant and taubs shrugs at him.]
...that went well.
[choppy and indistinct] she's crashing again. where are you?
what? [the call disconnects]
the baby's bleeding again.
yes you're a genius.the bleeding means her liver is still failing. it's not a vascular malformation.
[over the phone] house no! i need you!
[from outside] house i know you're in there! open the door! [house and wilson look unsure what to do]
i saw your extension on the call. what are you doing down here?
...her liver failure is getting worse. you were right. now what?
could have been something we did that temporarily relieved the<U+0097>
after the transfusion we gave her steroids dopamine and the anti <U+0097> [pauses] steroids can treat idiopathic hepatic fibrosis. it would explain why she got better and then worse.
...and what else?
[looks at the child] it's amazing. she's pink and healthy again.
a blood transfusion isn't a cure.
[quietly] then why does the baby seem like she's cured?
i thought her expertise could<U+0097>
i'm o negative universal donor.
i think we can say this isn't working. we'll get her back on your blood. that'll help for now but this means there's an infection. first we need to identify it. we know it's in her liver so we'll get a sample. then we can figure out how to help her get better.
don't worry. i've done this at least once before. [abbey smiles halfheartedly]
but... you have.
scleroderma can cause cancer-fighting antibodies.
you can't blame yourself.
i'm all done here. we'll have the results soon.
treatment's... fairly simple.
let's just take this one step at a time. [to abbey] stop beating yourself up. [he leaves.]
so what did house want earlier?
he's just saying that to set me up.
if he wants me to offer you the job something's going on.
things with house are never as simple as they seem. trust me he's got an ulterior motive and i've got to figure it out before i do anything.
lungs clear for granulomas... yeah who cares? did you enjoy that bear trap snapping on your leg yesterday?
and you think i'm over-thinking this?
[the smug look fading from his face] ...look. [he points to a scan.]
she has two cancers?
cancer treating cancer?
you have lung cancer.
as unlikely as it sounds you have both. [justine looks confused]
we found it early so it should be treatable. in a way your daughter saved your life. we'll get you set up for the surgery and start you on chemo.
she'll only need the chemo.
not once we cut out the tumor. your body will stop making the antibodies that are keeping your baby healthy.
it could damage her brain or affect her development but these risks are small compared to the risks that you would be taking by leaving your cancers untreated.
...she died in seconds.
probably not. postmortem we were able to harvest all of her blood. it's enough to treat the baby.
pretty amazing case. thanks for your help.
i've thought about it and... [he sits down with her at the table] ...i'd like to formally offer you the job.
[slightly smug] yeah i know. chase and foreman can get a little<U+0097>
you don't understand. this whole thing was just a game to house. i didn't have a choice.
patient is joe dugan 42 political consultant. presents with palpable purpura and alt and ast are through the roof.
hate to steal the spotlight from small wonder over here but what about toxic exposure?
doesn't say anything about medicine can't shut up about architecture. great.
good idea.
are you a vampire? it's okay. we're inviting you in.
well she's gonna be a big help.
part of our job description not the most morally ambiguous part.
that's not it at all.
masters refused to go on the search with us.
she's basically the same age as thirteen.
the cell sorter separates the plasma from the remaining cellular components thereby removing
why would we do that?
how can we ask the patient to trust us after we tell him he can't trust us? fine. tell him. clear your conscience because that's what's important.
mr. dugan? what's wrong? can you hear me? (looking in joe's eyes with a penlight) he's paralyzed. (to masters) call foreman and chase get them down here. (masters rushes to the phone) mr. dugan!
not without diminished mental capacity loss of judgment. disseminated intravascular coagulation however fits.
this whole taub's an old man thing kinda rings hollow considering i'm in better shape than you are. pass the dye.
and white. and jewish. it'd be very embarrassing. i get why you wanna say no.
crap.
your blood test for d.i.c. came back completely normal.
that means the two things we thought it could be it's not.
foreman.
h.s.p. doesn't cause clots.
uh hold on. (he swallows an energy drink) wanna shoot for outs?
you gonna guard me?
three nothing.
seriously? you're gonna beat me with that?
thank you.
things have been just fine without pippi longdivision.
could be an infection.
schistosomiasis wouldn't respond to aztreonam.
who needs to travel when you've got a giant fish tank loaded with tropical fish tropical snails carrying tropical bacteria like schistosomiasis?
now you're getting involved in this too?
exactly. she's gone. it's over.
can we get a move on? (he takes what foreman was holding to do the same thing but faster)
all right. no snails. let's get out of here.
he said and i'm quoting here soon.
come on.
it's really not. is that guy seriously using the toilet? oh my god he's sitting down.
i didn't sleep with her. i interviewed her for hopkins med school.
we talked for an hour. she didn't remember me. she remembers the 20th digit of some math constant but she doesn't remember a guy she had a one-on-one meeting with.
mystery solved. now we can all go back to our lives.
are we presenting this to a jury of our peers? that should be enough for cuddy.
the test for hep c is 99.9% accurate. that means one in every thousand test is a false positive. we do enough maybe we get lucky. (disgusted) i smell like jail.
i heard dugan is already responding to treatment.
i wanted to apologize for the way
don't worry about it. (looking at the sweater she is wearing) is this grandma's tea cozy?
nothing. i'll see you upstairs.
what's it mean when somebody takes their cell phone into the bathroom when they're taking a shower?
she has a meeting today at 1:30. at a hotel.
animals.
patient works for morgan timber works. card's in the file. specializing in stables barns and stalls. he works around animals. rhodococcus equi.
or has a history of open wounds. (taub hurries out of the lab. chase follows him)
we think you have rhodococcus equi a horse infection. it's pretty rare in humans but easily treatable with antibiotics.
radiation sickness.
(stopping) i can't. i have a personal errand to run.
oh why would you say that?
rachel?
(answering his phone) hey. how long before you're home?
uh hey. hey. uh you left your laptop on.
yes.
yes.
that's it?
you're not wondering why it started. that makes me think you don't want
you took your cell phone with you into the bathroom when you took your shower this morning.
a guy?
a support group for what?
he hasn't had hallucinations.
you're saying the patient's religious extremism could be a symptom.
chickens aren't roosting. she's just got a friend. a guy she met in an online support group for cheating spouses.
you think she's cheating on her spouse with someone from a cheating spouse support group?
and now we're feeding him so they're both back.
the mri was clear. he has lesions.
that's an experimental treatment.
i went through your emails.
but you tell him things that you've never told me.
not things about me. about you. about your new job. about coloring your hair. about how you felt when your mother died. i want to know those things.
sounds like you love him.
you are having an affair. an emotional one.
i've done terrible things to you and i deserve all of this and more but you can't pretend that what you're doing isn't hurtful.
look i'm sorry. i didn't mean for it to go that way.
well that is hard to believe because all i feel right now is is betrayed.
good. because just like you asked me to stop my behavior i'm asking you to stop this.
no?
is this revenge?
it's not over okay? i just really miscalculated. i thought she'd forgiven me
house wanted us checking every 12 hours anyway.
they're overrated.
get house.
aah! aah!
yeah yeah great. have you seen cuddy's high-school yearbook?
there is no case. cuddy won't let house see the yearbook so he figures there's something to hide. any guesses? it's clearly related to being a giant teenage dork.
oh no no. i didn't mean.
i was the class president and head boy at <U+0097> aah!
certain parts of her and certain parts of some muscular hispanic gentleman.
i think i just caught one looking at these photos.
it means we might have an actual case.
they couldn't get out of work. i'm trying to economize. and this hotel is cheaper.
of course.
rache
what does that mean? have you moved on? with who? is it phil?
you're trying to change the subject.
wait with your brother? have you completely forgotten the last time i saw him?
he broke my nose and then called me the most horrible person he's ever met.
you bugged the room?
you think she's an alcoholic?
hey i kind of deserved it.
50 what?
i'll take it.
sure. is this?
and gave him a microbleed in his brain right?
this little white mark.
probably. but if there's any doubt<U+0097>
okay. you're right. i'm off.
we were already fired.
maybe it's not hypochondria. she said she gets a lot of rashes. add the fever <U+0097> sounds like autoimmune s.l.e.
you got to tell him it's endocarditis.
so what do we do?
am i a horrible person? i used to win awards for volunteer work. i went to guatemala and fixed cleft palates. now we're sitting back letting chase do our dirty work.
i don't know. i don't know about anything anymore. then this thing with the kid rachel's brother<U+0097>
conveniently. come on don't ask me. i don't even know if i believe it's endo<U+0097>[his phone chirps. he looks at the caller id.] damn it. it's rachel's brother. he wants me to check out some new case.
it's a tryout. i need this job. i got to do this.
are you timothy's mom?
my name is christopher taub. i'm a doctor at princeton plainsboro. i saw your son's file. i think he might have a very small bleed in his brain.
your son could die of a brain hemorrhage. he needs a cerebral angiogram today. get in your car and meet me at the hospital.
my phone wasn't exactly on. i figure i'll be getting some angry calls once radiology sends back the angiogram.
that's good news for him.
allergy's got to be due to our antibiotics.
he's right.
i thought you didn't want to see me.
what do you care?
she's a waitress. they're no strangers to botulism or alcoholism. we should search the diner and where she lives.
you said there's a second case?
i was recovering from the flu. i'm retaking it next week. it's not an issue.
i don't need a tutor.
foreman.
i could show you four right now if you ask me one more review question.
no house said that. i pretended to agree to get him off my back. i picked you because i wanted the guy who doesn't like getting involved in other people's problems.
(pausing by a full shelf of unfinished jigsaw puzzles) by treating me like i'm an imbecile? i'm totally fine. i aced my first pathology boards.
you know i heard of a guy who knew a guy who could get the exam ahead of time. (foreman looks at him) it was something i heard.
yeah she went vegan.
we have an answer. magnesium poisoning.
everything okay?
okay uh so we push fluids and wait for her kidneys to clear the hypermagnesemia?
her sister was barely in the room five minutes.
i couldn't decide on the cheese.
(putting something into the microwave) i'll get to it. i like it here. they have video on demand.
i hate practice tests. hey i never saw the usual suspects. you wanna check it out before we start?
why is everyone's first assumption i'm gonna fail this stupid test?
i was recovering from the flu.
well it's a nice match with your condescension and superiority.
failing kidneys puts the heart back on the list as a symptom.
there are a number that'd fit. guillain-barre polymyositis
you're worse than masters.
this isn't really about cuddy is it? it's about you. you don't want to lose me. i think you care.
huh.
nothing i just always pictured your place with shag carpet. like kind of a mod squad vibe. not because of the black thing. i always thought you were more of
where's marcus?
he tells you?
great i'll be back bright and early tomorrow and<U+0097>
stop whining already. i was getting a sniper.
but the next level's just past the cooling tanks.
i-i didn't have the flu. i just choked.
i got a perfect score on my first pathology boards. i kept thinking whatever my score is now it's going to be a measure of the distance between me and the man
well the last test was before i lost my wife and my home so i'm sure the next one will go much better.
how'd i do?
great? how great? how many did i miss?
(angrily) 54%?
oh my god now i'm choking in your living room. this isn't gonna work.
i found the guy. he can sell me a copy of the test. (foreman grabs the phone from taub) i know it's cheating and i suck as a person. but the test is tomorrow morning.
i can't handle failing at one more thing in my life.
keep talking.
yeah.
i feel like we just buried a hooker in the desert.
next time. (they get into the car)
well it's hard to choke when you have all the answers.
uh rachel thought it was too big and i can't keep it in my hotel room.
i couldn't stand the thought of you having company over with that other tv. it's embarrassing.
thank you.
we could do that online from separate houses.
okay. (he puts his luggage down prepared to stay)
what about angiodysplasia?
this little camera transmits images to the data recorder so we can see if you've got any vascular malformations in your gi tract. [ryan swallows the pill with some water while taub listens to his chest.] your records show you've lost some weight over the past year. was that intentional?
i need to talk to your son about sexual activity. generally it's less embarrassing for everyone<U+0097>
how long have you been cutting yourself?
so no to cutting but yes to appetite and sleep changes and you quit something you used to enjoy. how long have you been depressed?
imaging showed no sign of upper gi issues. but the kid did admit to being depressed and to smoking pot to take the edge off.
his marijuana could be laced with formaldehyde or lead which could cause a pulmonary hemorrhage which could make him spit up blood. [house waits.] yes. yes i am. i thought it was a good catch.
feel free to tip your other server.
the truth. you had a minor chemical exposure and we can't be 100% sure how it happened.
i know what it's like to be 16.
it's my job to notice things. maybe talking to your parents would make things better.
in med school it seemed like everybody else could handle the pressure. i couldn't. i ended up hurting myself. stupidest thing i've ever done. [checks ryan's eyes with a flashlight] you've got red spots in your eyes. they weren't there before.
we still don't know why ryan coughed blood and now he's got small hemorrhages in his eyes.
mood swings are also a symptom of adolescence along with emo music and masturbation. more importantly his weight loss and sleeping issues started a year ago.
hey guys. everything okay?
you wanna tell me what's going on?
how often do you sell drugs?
[takes out his wallet] give the thug his money back. one time only.
it's no big deal.
why would you do that? ryan you okay in there?
scoping showed no sign of a bleed in his bladder which points to a kidney problem.
patient admitted to using pot. who knows what else he's doing. this could be a heroin-induced nephropathy.
and then you pointed out how sweet that was.
while he's doing that can i at least search his house for drugs?
he's doggy paddling in a sea of misery. i remember what it's like.
look at this.
clots angiograms <U+0097> i'm focused. the kid scratched out the faces of half his class. you don't think that's a problem?
copied from his flash drive. do i go to the cops?
it goes on. he talks about bombing his school.
we'd like to do an embolectomy. we'll run a corkscrew-shaped instrument into ryan's brain and pull the clot out.
yes. but i wanted to see you alone. i saw some videos that ryan made a few weeks ago. he's blowing up pipe bombs and threatening people in his school.
i'm not so sure.
he needs help.
what do you think i should do?
so i shouldn't do anything.
so i should call the cops.
you suck at this.
what was that thing and why did it just dissolve in the middle of surgery?
guys!
those can take years to emerge.
i got that.
it's good news.
i think i know where it is. [he goes to ryan's side and opens his gown revealing the scabs.] what if these aren't from skateboarding? [the video of ryan grinning as his bomb explodes behind him shows followed by cgi of the abscess at work.] the kid has been blowing up pvc pipe bombs. if he got hit by shrapnel the body walls off the foreign object which because it's plastic doesn't show up on imaging and provides a perfect home for bacteria. antibiotics attacked the infection causing pieces to break off. some hit the liver. one lodged in his brain and dissolved when foreman touched it. [cut to o.r. chase picks out a piece of shrapnel with a tweezers and puts in a cup held by a nurse.] once we drain the abscess and remove the shrapnel the antibiotics can do their job. he'll be fine.
house screwed us.
and house isn't sick.
cuddy dumped house. he's out somewhere expecting us to indulge him while he ignores his job and licks his wounds.
don't do that. don't get sucked in.
i can feel bad for him while still expecting him to act like an adult show up for work and not go on a booze- vicodin- and hooker-filled bender.
so how do we confirm? ct is just gonna show us the plate and screws holding his skull together.
who was that?
previous test was for regular people. you were banged up pretty bad in the accident. but given your athletic ability
can you blame him?
you ever think of getting paid for doing something else? you're running out of bones to break.
we can stop. there's obviously nothing wrong with his inner ear. now what? and i direct that question not to my boss but to anyone who has an answer.
gi bleed's more likely to explain the nausea and weakness.
let me rephrase. you have to decide if you're gonna buck up get out of bed and do your job or if you're gonna wallow in self-pity.
that is not true in so many ways.
does it actually worry you?
and does that worry you?
if his rule-breaking is affecting his judgment then you can step in and you can worry but if he's just coming up with ideas that we haven't thought of but we should have then our job is to shut up and do it. and what do you see in this guy?
right. it's against the rules so you wouldn't do it.
you have every reason to not be attracted to him which is why i ask the question. why are you attracted to him?
i'm just
but i don't see
not that see through stuff.
no.
more suction. [he puts his hands in and starts looking around.] that's impossible. i definitely saw a mass on the x-rays.
we would have seen eggs on a fecal smear or systemic eosinophilia.
it was there which means something is wrong. we need to find it.
you okay?
i'm just saying it's good to have somebody near by to talk to who cares.
no kidding. i just can't figure out why.
o-2 stats are plummeting. we need to intubate. drop the table. [he tries to get the tube in lane's throat.] i can't get it in.
doesn't look like it.
uh none. none of those cause bloody sputum or disappearing masses.
i say we start by looking in the heart because looking at his brain with a metal plate is problematic.
we could minimize the damage by injecting ice water into his abdominal cavity.
the mri magnets are gonna heat the metal. could get to over 300 degrees in 15 seconds.
wow.
it's interesting.
oh. is that all?
and yet somehow your rational brain is losing the argument which is interesting.
[over the intercom] lane can you try to hold still?
guy is tough. i'll give him that. my prefrontal cortex is a little aroused.
i don't have a clear view of his aorta yet.
no. you're trying to protect him instead of trying to save him.
five more seconds.
got it.
the images [shrugs] they're normal.
his skull has multiple hairline fractures. removing the metal plate will be like removing half an eggshell without cracking the rest of the shell.
heart looks good. the aorta's exposed.
no bubbles no bruising no gaps. it's not working.
we can't clamp the aorta at this pressure. even if you can see through all the blood.
seriously? you're bringing them to work now?
they say he's a righteous dude.
(holding out a tin of syringes and cotton balls) what kind of drugs you shooting up?
ferris tell you his real name yet?
danny jennings.
all from the same guy?
tox screens were negative for drug use.
house you buying this?
it can't be tumors. edges are too sharp and defined.
he's just telling you what you want to hear.
i think we should boycott this wedding on principle.
w-what about chase? he ask him?
what the hell?
i still have feelings.
i thought the dysosmia was from heroin.
and we believe the lying liar why?
if we combine the dysosmia with the tunnel vision the symptoms fit for western equine encephalitis.
ow! what the hell?
(to danny) we need you to stay still.
you want him squirming around? we'll have to do it twice.
you really think this kid can turn his life around?
masters doesn't surprise me. he plays the fellow med student who dreams of being a doctor and reels her in. but you falling for his deep connection with god?
we don't even know who he is except that he lies about who he is. the bit about his abusive father is probably all made up.
he's a punk. probably got into a lot of fights. and he sucked you in using the dad story.
he's vomiting.
he has two dark spots in the parietal cortex. they're not tumors maybe some kind of uh injury or inborn defect.
except as was already covered he was screened for mental illness down in the e.r.
i'll bet you 50 bucks his favorite sport is hockey.
just a hunch.
how you feeling?
i'll talk to the nurse about upping your pain meds.
oh my nephew bought it for me knows i'm a huge fan.
we need to take a look under the bandages.
i wouldn't worry about it. we'll probably die first.
it's a fake marriage but a real honeymoon?
i found danny's father.
the kid said he was in a state-sponsored rehab last november. there's only one danny jennings that was in treatment at the time and he listed his father's address as his primary next of kin.
he lives about 30 minutes from the hospital.
chase and masters are already on their way. (taub pauses and house looks up at him) why didn't you ask me to be part of your wedding?
is it because i haven't been here as long as them? or is it that you really don't like me? or are are you just s-screwing
um i'll i'll come back when she's finished.
everything. we know nothing about this kid.
most of our patients tend to do that unless we cure them.
his condition started deteriorating before that.
and we saved him.
but what about her back? look. [he replays part of the dvd] right before the collapse she hit the small of her back on the railing. damaged adrenal glands caused adrenal insufficiencies which caused the collapse.
and you're considering this?
damn him. mercury poisoning is out. red blood cells have normal morphology.
ra is 8. equalization of pressures.
dehydration does.
temporary pacer ready.
you have any thoughts about our patient?
if you're not interested in the case why'd you take it?
two?
well that just leaves every poison we didn't think of. she works in a bomb factory.
and if we had any evidence of what was wrong with her you'd be showing us mri results. i assume they were negative.
i know. i know the whole label thing is so limiting. you're a person who happens to suffer from alcoholism.
you just collect bottles.
and you're ashamed of these art projects. the bottles were hidden.
and what's the hard question?
so what do we do?
is it a symptom of the underlying condition or a symptom of our treatment?
i paged house. [foreman rolls his eyes at him.] what? we got nothing. less than nothing since he's actually ignoring my pages which means we have a sick patient and apparently a sick boss.
it's definitely not pancreatitis. restarting the treatment obviously didn't help anything. i assume you tested for infections. [chase gives him a duh look] and i assume that look means yes and i was wrong. [to thirteen] you call for a psych consult? wow. that's the same look i just got from chase. so an hour ago we had three theories we couldn't agree on. now we've got no theories but we're in agreement.
you want us to help you get out of paying your bet while your actual patient lies in agony.
i got it.
[ignores house and returns to the ddx] underlying neurological condition exacerbated by an acute uti brought on by her sexual escapades.
sorry. acute uti brought on by her healthy enjoyment of her womanhood. we start her on iv ampicillin and an aminoglycoside.
it's not a seizure. she's having a heart attack. no pulse.
still no pulse.
aicd not working?
rectal?
is that an accusation?
okay so in answering i have to decide between the only two possibilities. no and yes we might have screwed something up but are intentionally hiding it because we're incompetent and we're asses. answer is no. glad we didn't shortchange that avenue. it's a blood disorder. a coagulopathy.
true but not saying she has a runny nose risks getting snot all over us. we can treat it.
that's an awfully simplistic approach to matters of the heart.
no one is rational about emotion. that's why they're emotions.
i'm gonna start treating the symptoms while you finish listing the possible causes.
page said she's now bleeding from her mouth.
i said i would.
not asking the question would have been even better.
if it's coming from both ends it's internal.
acute myeloid leukemia can cause swelling in the gums.
again you're being an ass.
not that we know of.
i paged ho<U+0097>
wait. ruby.
she's pregnant. (getting up from the couch) i need a drink.
i don't know why she's even considering having my kid. she barely knows me. all she knows is i'm a short balding guy. it doesn't even make evolutionary sense.
no.
i said no.
dude i said<U+0097>
although without crappy dads in the world
oh sorry. (he takes his phone out of his pocket to see who is calling) uh it's my boss. (he puts the phone back in his pocket) probably drunk. wants a ride home. he can take a cab. do you have any kids?
mmm uh no. i <U+0096> what would you do if you got pregnant? not by me at all but by some hypothetical guy who didn't want to keep the hypothetical kid. what would be the least awful way for him to tell you that?
should i send flowers? maybe write the clinic appointment on the little card? surprise! i hate myself. (he sighs) there's just no good way to<U+0097>(noticing a mole on her lower back he touches it) how long have you had this mole? it's asymmetrical.
sorry. have you been to see a dermatologist?
(to bobby) oh uh i wasn't touching her. i was just <U+0097> oh god.
oh!
i got tossed out by bobby the bouncer.
i was looking at her mole.
i want to wait for the girl make sure that mole's okay.
it was asymmetrical. it might be cancerous.
i want to fulfill my oath as a doctor.
she's probably off work soon.
call ruby.
no.
call rachel.
(to the command system) no.
i really am a doctor. i just wanted<U+0097>
no that mole. i just wanted <U+0097> please don't call bobby.
(holding up his hands in submission) just calm down.
please don't.
(whispering) please please
please
please please please
ruby.
i've been doing a lot of thinking.
just hear me out. back when i still had my practice this patient came in 50-year-old guy wanted a tummy tuck. but when we do some prelim work we discover that his stomach is filled with cancer. so instead of telling him that he's gonna look great at the beach i got to tell him that he's dying.
please. the weird part was i was more upset about the whole thing than he was. he actually had to calm me down. said he had great kids raised them right knew that because of them he was leaving the world a better place. (taking both her hands in his) i thought i might die last night.
yes i was at a strip club. and while it was happening i kept thinking about that patient and how i wish i was like him. i want to have this baby.
no. just haven't had my coffee yet.
which doctor was that <U+0097> seuss or j?
there was a space heater next to her in the gallery.
congratulations. it's a gestational sac. can't see anything this early.
we have almost eight months. you're not having doubts are you?
definitely not. nice cozy home for little ruben. [ruby makes an ick face.] it's a family name.
named for my family.
it's just house.
well then i guess as long as long as the exploitation is properly motivated it's all okay.
why are we even discussing this case? she lied to us. it's opening us up to malpractice.
ex-wife.
i haven't told her yet.
i'm trying to let her down easy. rachel never wanted to have kids. i don't want
i've loved rachel for 20 years. what if she never speaks to me again?
rache. sorry i ducked your calls. i keep making the same mistakes but at some point<U+0097>
i didn't expect that.
