to find out what? how long we can look stupid for?
he said he'd be here by three; he's obviously not coming.
i'm going home.
dr. house?
i'd like to be on the men's team.
not yet.
you've never hired more than one female on your team before.
if you're going to purge an entire gender it isn't going to be the danglers.
(impatient) can i switch teams?
i get it. you don't like me because maybe i'm a little bit... competitive.
it's a game. you can either play for fun or play to win. if you want to win you want cutthroat.
why do you guys keep a 'd' cell battery in a urine specimen cup?
why would somebody swallow a battery?
would have been worse if he'd used a 9-volt.
false assumptions. you're good. you're trying to get me to think like him.
(earnestly seriously) because house is turning patient care into a game. it's dangerous. the patient's going to suffer - maybe die.
(briskly) got a diagnosis yet?
(sarcastically) got a stool sample yet?
oh i talked to a nurse. pretty brilliant hunh? (beat) i give you a move house will love straight from one of his former fellows and you let me join your team.
because i don't care what you're thinking. you want to know why i want to be on your team? because you're idiots. if i can get the women out of the competition i'm in. (beat) and so are two of you.
it's called xenodiagnosis.
we let these bugs bite you and then we test their feces for parasites.
testing the bugs' feces is actually more accurate than testing yours. smaller haystack easier to find the needle.
the test isn't done.
shouldn't we be in separate rooms?
(impatiently) we should talk about the case. (beat) he's punishing us for wasting time maybe we shouldn't be wasting this time.
we need to find a link between fainting and trouble swallowing.
we need the ct to prove it.
i was never here.
i need our patient.
you obviously haven't stressed his system hard enough.
we thought there was a tumor on the patient's esophagus. we were right about the area wrong about the diagnosis. (trades house film for stick) turns out the esophagus is just straightening. it's scleroderma. it explains the syncope and the choking. he needs steroids.
obviously.
do you think house could be wrong?
no he fired the men.
if he is how would i prove it?
well thinking isn't good enough.
would you mind running the labs?
well i can but...
you have a chance to make his life miserable.
i told her what she wanted to hear.
if it's any consolation i think your motives are more interesting.
the other doctors tell you that you were fine?
there's an outside shot that something other than the sma is causing your eating problems. and if it is we can fix it. remove that tube.
(triumphant) it means i'm not fired.
they get it. i'm not stupid.
icm.
our team's scleroderma diagnosis still holds. the test could have been negative because the blood was contaminated with contrast.
you're not getting enough oxygen so we're inserting a tube directly into your lungs. it should help us drain some of this excess fluid.
sats are still dropping.
he just paged me.
dr. house!
it wasn't an accident.
he paged me.
i assume because he...
(faux cheerfully) you're looking better. (solemnly) stark's dead.
what are you doing?
he's dead.
you really shouldn't be...
i assume we're all fired.
ready? one two...
why'd you call me?
but why not one of the others?
we all have cell phones. that's not the reason. what is?
you don't think anybody else has any reason to care?
[feigning concern softly] how're you doing?
[whispering] fyi if you ask me it's more the guy's fault than yours. and house isn't blameless either. if he hadn't pitted us all against each other...
could be a tumor to the temporal lobe.
you mean it appeared normal to the doc in the er.
try to lie as still as possible.
thirteen's a lock.
she killed a guy in a wheelchair. and his dog.
and she's the ultimate fun 'cause he can't figure her out.
so quit. happy to lose the competition.
either quit or shut up.
[wide-eyed] the guy's already been buried.
dr. cuddy i'm amber one of dr. house's new fellows.
actually i was wondering if you needed any extra help in the clinic tonight.
understood. but i hear dr. house hates clinic duty. if he were to hear through the grapevine that i was willing to work overtime take some of it off his hands...
does everybody around here have trust issues?
[smiling] sorry i'm late.
oh i got lost.
really lost. i brought coffee and donuts.
so thirteen you grow up around here?
i'm just making conversation. it's what people do. why are you hiding everything? and i'm asking you that question because you're hiding everything. there's something seriously wrong with you. i'm worried.
fine but i am freaked because i don't think you're a freak. i think you're doing this on purpose because you know house will be intrigued.
[nervous] what is it?
well we could narrow it down if you could remember what your mother died from.
do you think we're lying to you?
you lose your mother?
do you think we're trying to trick you? why would we do that?
she's seeing someone else.
a guy in a wheelchair.
he had a dog. she's seeing stark. our last patient.
because she won't tell us. she thinks her mother's still alive.
lesions aren't explained by parkinson's.
if the signals are misfiring it'll confirm that an old man without a medical license is smarter than all of us. that your hallucinations were caused by...
c'mon this has got to be freaking you out a little bit.
there's nothing to be ashamed of here. if the ghost of a man you killed doesn't screw with your head there's something wrong with your head.
[acts scared shrinks back] see that freaks me out.
oh absolutely. that makes sense. the dog was in here getting his eyes checked and forgot to put his jewelry back on.
[into phone] code in the eye lab.
[butts in] i hate thirteen.
i know what she has.
[beaming] mushrooms weren't the only thing that got people stoned to death. jimsonweed belladonna mandrake root and... moldy bread. it's ergot poisoning.
it's why she got worse on the bromocriptine. it's an ergot derivative.
she kept asking for milk. dairy products counteract the effects.
cravings based on actual needs. it's a fairly common evolutionary development.
it's the stuff they make lsd from. the treatment you're on should...
the fact that you're even willing to accept that answer means the medicine is starting to work.
[chuckles uneasily] you're kidding.
[jumps up from her seat angry] i came up with the answer. i robbed a grave. i...
[to house] no i never...
does this mean there's one less slot for us? [everyone looks at house house in turn looks at cuddy. everyone looks at cuddy.]
cuddy obviously thinks we're idiots she's not going to let house hire any one of us.
so which master do we serve? whose ass do we have to kiss to get this job?
[in the microphone.] no.
test was a bust.
we found two new symptoms.
what's going on?
house's?
what's the limit?
500 on kutner.
do you take cheques?
we need to tube him and bag him.
if we just let him die it doesn't matter what he has.
okay while you're killing him... i'll get the intubation kit.
it's got to be some kind of infection.
make a fist... little pinch. [starts to draw blood.]
this thing works you're lucky you've got me. my colleague wanted to cook you in boiling water. [pulls out the vial of blood and looks at it.]
that's supposed to be me right?
i don't think i'm always...
start with a biopsy to rule out cancer.
needle works for that too.
had?
which one of us is he mirroring?
that it wasn't even pus it was just coagulated blood caused by the cold agglutinins.
nothing on the blood cultures.
between?
we're all fired?
twenty-month-old baby persistent rash fever...
your dad's either a cop or a security guard.
this is a test right? you're reporting back to him everything we do.
i'm with the little man [taub] on this one. it's attacking the body and the brain. classic autoimmune.
can i have a kid too? i'm working too hard.
if i had two minutes and some anti-nausea meds i'd take you up on that.
positive? it's lupus.
still think it's lupus?
me too. in case of emergency go to the emergency room.
that's what we figured.
foreman.
all i've heard about you: you put the patient above everything else. that's why everyone finds you so annoying.
fever's down to 101.5.
[defensively] we had no choice. the sed rate pointed to lupus.
we consulted an immunologist. she said we have...
and whoever wins.
she's been vaccinated.
there's no cure but there are treatments.
[to foreman] you must have. she got better.
what's the challenge?
you were talking about a challenge?
what's the challenge?
if you want to stand on principle i really respect you for that.
fine.
of course i'm going to do it. [leaves.]
thought you weren't playing?
she'll fire you if she catches you.
you trying to will them off?
[looks at the coffee in taub's hand.] you haven't touched that coffee.
she can't keep her panties on if they're wet. [taub looks at amber.] we work together. one wins protects the other.
dr cuddy. [taub trips over and the coffee goes all over the floor as well as on himself.]
i have some extra time do you need any help in the clinic?
yes can you ask dr. cuddy to come to the nurse's station? stat.
i asked you to get doctor...
[laughs.] wow that's rude even for you.
no!
if you're not cheating you're not trying hard enough.
what if it isn't his heart? what if it's the vessels around his heart? polyarteritis nodosa causes cardiac symptoms and hypertension which makes his nose bleed.
the antibiotics aren't working. it's obviously not tularaemia or any other infection.
if he developed dic after the surgery even a normal biopsy bleeds out of control.
so who's going on the block?
he's probably right.
you decide to put me up i totally get it. nothing personal.
but you don't like me.
no masses. i'm manipulative. i play the game. i can be a bitch.
damage from where the key ripped through. you're probably expecting me to bash the others give examples of how they screwed up you know i can. i'm a good doctor. as good as anybody around here probably better and you know that's the only thing that matters.
it's not a tumour it's another bleed. this one's in his kidney.
his timetable might be right on.
yeah could be adrenal gland disorders blood issues anaphylaxis.
he's bleeding way too much for amyloidosis.
pseudomonas would present as an armpit rash take off your shirt.
he smoked his airways into oblivion.
o2 stats are low. hyper-inflated chest. i need a bronchoscopy to
what for?
yeah.
if he had a history of shoving cancer into his veins i'd have guessed cancer.
[sitting happy] i have seventeen points?
i haven't run my test yet. it still might be a lung issue.
i'll do an open-lung biopsy instead.
[defensively] the patient snuck a cigarette.
not his fault he's jonesing? in what universe does that make any sense?
[irritated] the problem's not the arm it's the entire patient.
real rebellion has a point. it's not just juvenile and purposeless.
[nods] mission accomplished.
[somberly] means i was wrong.
drug impurities.
new symptom new round. this has to be drug related.
[arguing] drug addicts use drugs is a stereotype? drugs are bad is a stereotype? losers lose is
oh yeah it's much more likely that this ass punk rocker was exposed to malaria than drugs?
[carefully] your situation is different. you're taking a necessary prescription.
i'm not allowed to have a problem with junkies?
he's throwing his life away.
i thought we were talking about him.
[laughs] are you gonna fire me because i like to win?
[pretends to think] um i watched this football game once. and i noticed something odd. [sarcastic] the winning team was the happy one. i did the math.
[softly] he's an idiot.
[interrupts irritated] mommy didn't love me enough. daddy expected too much from me. [beat] something!
let's assume that's true. i get how that can make me a screwed-up person. [choking] but how is my willingness to do anything to get the right answer bad for my patients? [beat] or put in terms you can understand how is it bad for you?
inhalants
he knows where we are.
you didn't authorize that test.
[interrupts] you're not running any tests. [to house complaining about kutner] he knows it's not pe's. the guy's d-dimer's normal.
you go in to run one test run eight more like she [thirteen] did find out which one's right. then comes back with a brilliant guess.
does foreman being here mean the game's over?
so you're not gonna tell me who sells you drugs?
you're dying. does that matter?
[softly] you don't regret anything?
[closes her eyes] yeah.
[whispering] what's it like?
this is a joke right?
[apprehensively] are we still fired?
we can't all be right.
[cuts in] he kept swallowing. could be neurological. could be a complex partial seizure.
you didn't call me bitch. is that bad?
reasons don't matter. results are the only thing
[sullenly] you're gonna have to grow old after all. you've got measles. we're blasting you with corticosteroids.
i got fired.
trying not to care.
of course not. house doesn't care about anyone.
sorry i'm late.
how did you...?
[dryly] it's a good plan don't you think? perfectly tailored to your personality.
[humoring him] i can't wait. it's gonna be awesome.
innocent bystander but there's a greater good.
so... which is it house? am i in this for you? or am i in this for him?
that's okay. [to house] hi greg. and i call you greg because we're now social equals.
i assume you'd like to join us? it'll be easier to observe our interaction if you're at the same table.
excuse me.
we've been waiting for...
you wanted to see me?
i feel pretty confident it'll be something interesting.
is there a drop wilson clause attached to this?
why do you have to believe i have an ulterior motive?
[leaning forward sincerely] all my life i thought i had to choose between love and... respect. and i chose respect. and with wilson... i know what it's like to have both. [beat] and that beats a fellowship.
could be dic.
i hope so.
of wilson?
[looks at wilson] deal with him.
this is reasonable? this is crazy. you're not a child you can make your own plans.
i have yoga wednesday's you can have him then. but you have to have him home by 11. [house looks at wilson who doesn't look up from his paper.] we can swap weekends.
if he's not home till midnight we won't be asleep till almost 2:00.
take my deal or get out of my apartment.
my boyfriend's too much of a wuss to make the call for himself... [turns around to wilson.] and i mean that with all the love in the world.
[turns to wilson.] let's go.
wednesday's till 11:00 and alternate weekends.
15 minutes.
so keep him an extra 16 minutes.
you're going mini golfing what's it matter? you got a tee off time?
which was my fault.
[kisses wilson good bye.] have fun on your play date. [as she's leaving.] you've got mummy's numbers right?
you returned him drunk. [house turns around startled and sees amber sitting on a chair behind him.]
drunk.
the purpose of the time was to give me time.
i like sex.
you don't get to decide what matters. either you're genuinely afraid i'm going to make him miserable or you're afraid i'm going to make him happy or you simply can't stop screwing with anything that moves. it doesn't really matter because whatever the reason you'll only get worse. until either i stop seeing wilson or i stop you. [stands up.] what do you think i'm going to choose?
i'm not terminating the agreement. i'm amending the agreement. i'm adding penalty clauses.
i'm serious.
i'm not cutting...
house doesn't have syphilis he switched the blood samples.
house told wilson i wanted to ruin house's day. see ya. [leaves.]
we need a tougher punishment.
dinner at l'auberge.
[smiles.] of course i am.
i like this one.
that's too rich for us.
honey we can't afford that. not with the baby on the way.
yes.
money is really tight right now. i'm a law clerk and my husband just got laid off. he has an interview today. wish him luck.
we might be able to afford $1500.
thanks. i appreciate it. [he leaves. amber's beeper goes off. she hand wilson her bag] hold this would you? 911 from work. better go.
whatever mattress you want. i'm fine either way.
really. just as long as i get to help you break it in.
let's see how this baby handles.
you bought the firm mattress.
it was. why would you do that?
i left it up to you. you were supposed to get the one you wanted.
no. [she pushes him off and sits up] you did it because that's what you do. with all your ex-wives you did whatever they wanted because it was easier and you ended up resenting them. don't you dare do that to me.
have you met me? i can take care of me. i need you to take care of you. i have work to do.
what are you doing out here?
[sitting on the floor next to him] i actually kind of like it.
okay. [she lies down with him] i'm glad you got it though.
they will. [she snuggles closer he chuckles]
he's concerned about you. why does that mean he's insecure?
it's a legit question.
i'm cold.
you look nervous.
i have. trust me. you'll love it.
[vo] are you okay?
don't worry you're just dreaming.
boring.
[slowly] what did we do last night?
is that all it was? a man thinks a woman is beautiful admires her intelligence admires the way she has to get whatever she wants the things he likes about himself.
[talks slowly as she slowly eases into his lap] maybe she always had a little thing for him. his mind. his blue eyes. but someone gets between them. so they decide to meet one night at an out-of-the-way little bar. does that sound familiar?
do i feel familiar? what do you feel? [breathes into his ear] electricity.
hepatitis b is a lame diagnosis.
i rise from the dead and that's the reaction i get?
because hep b doesn't fit.
he's working. and i'm willing to suffer this indignity on his behalf.
c'mon. time to go.
nothing. [to the bartender] we're leaving.
the obstinate drunk thing is not flattering. c'mon. you called for a ride.
one. [picks up her cosmo] and you leave voluntarily.
let's go.
thanks.
house what are you doing? you can barely walk.
you forgot something.
yeah i'm an idiot that way.
for wilson.
ugh damn do you have a kleenex?
i need more than that. i'm getting that nasty flu.
[softly] hey.
i'm on bypass.
got on the bus.
[choking] i shouldn't have gotten on the bus.
how bad?
the flu pills?
[sobs] i'm dead.
[barely audible as she cries] i love you too.
[softly] i'm tired.
i think it's time to go to sleep.
we are always gonna want just a little longer.
it's okay.
[shakes her head] that's... not... the last feeling i want to experience.
everybody dies.
not yet.
why?
self-pity isn't like you.
[playfully] you kind of deserve it.
i know.
[leans close to house whispers] what now?
[softly] get off the bus.
why not?
well you can't always get what you want.
