99.9. i'm gonna start him on ceftriaxone.
i didn't say it was.
how do you know about ceftriaxone?
well there's no discoid or malar rash on his face.
no there's no reason to search for a bodily rash since lupus doesn't usually present that way.
not usually.
i checked you out. you were a pretty big deal. what went wrong?
drug related? forging prescriptions?
why are you so sure i'm gonna do what you say?
why would you say any of that?
or it is lupus and he was in a fight.
'cause if he admits he was in a fight then he goes to the hole.
[straightening up and thinking about this] huh.
may you what? make me lose my job by showing you a patient file? [house drops his hand and looks down.] but why don't you assume no recent meds?
you're thinking lung cancer. metastatic. i'll x-ray him on friday. [house gives her an annoyed look.] we share a traveling x-ray machine with two other clinics.
he's not.
very interesting practice you must've run. no need for tests. [house taps on the door and the guard opens it.] no need for proof. where are you going?
[impressed] yeah!
how did you find that without a stethoscope? i didn't even know you could do this!
no.
all you've proven is there's an anomaly in his chest.
which apparently really bugs you. [she has an idea] i could do a clotting test.
we're just gonna cut your earlobe a bit and check back in two minutes. if there's a little blood bubbling up that's normal. but if it's completely clotted it may indicate cancer. okay? ready?
are you really leaving medicine? what are you gonna do? [no answer] you know for someone who asks as many favors as you do you sure don't make any effort to win me over.
so uh so you wanna research it? why?
and completely divorced from humanity.
tsk. you have a gift. there is something in this world you are undeniably great at. you can read people. you-you understand them. you gotta go back to medicine.
cool.
hey. the x-ray didn't show any tumors. the acoustical shadow was just a lipoma. [house sits down and rubs his leg.] i'm thinking <U+0097> you all right?
ibuprofen?
you can look at the patient file if you want.
any reason i shouldn't?
people are complicated. and people change.
if we add clotting disorder to the symptoms it's gotta be a toxin.
the laundry room. so maybe a solvent or detergent?
off at his other clinics.
no.
why did you lie to me about what you were in for?
i feel stupid. it-it doesn't even make sense. why are you doing time? you didn't have any priors. you didn't hurt anyone.
i'm sorry. we can't talk about this case anymore.
what happened to your cheek?
fire? house we gotta evacuate this area. come on.
usually? it can hit any organ. joint pain osteopenia and anaphylaxiseyebrow loss it fits.
but if-if it is masto<U+0097>
i think house is right.
dr. house. did you get all the vicodin you needed? [he looks at her] i'm not an idiot. that fire the bruise on your face i talk to prisoners. i know about exit taxes. you're clearly getting squeezed.
we'll take care of nick.
just take care of yourself. [she returns to the clinic.]
you are so lucky. we got a guy in an ambulance heading to princeton general. another dozen getting teargas hosed off them.
oh god. did you get beaten up on purpose?
they're gonna revoke your parole. they're gonna charge you with extra crimes. you'll be here six more months minimum!
i checked your file. you didn't have a bad lawyer. you had no lawyer. you took the first deal they offered you because you wanted to punish yourself. do you think getting beaten up you think saving this one guy will wipe your slate clean?
then why are you doing this?
you just bought yourself months in solitary. was it really worth it?
i don't know. i-i-i was-i was scared.
yes. now shut up and let's see if he has an attack.
you said we were meeting for coffee.
i thought you were referring to talking.
i'm not working house. i'm in the process of looking for a paying job.
there is a free clinic in trenton.
i lost my job.
oh a sudden collapse at your age can indicate a deterioration of the heart muscle. pretty serious condition.
(while performing the ultrasound) you give away millions and you don't own a suit?
and by money you mean all your money.
he's generous.
his echocardiogram is negative for cardiomyopathy. head ct showed no signs of stroke or hemorrhage.
most people with his kind of money are commissioning oil paintings of their yorkshire terrier. benjamin is sacrificing his own comfort to help others.
that's good. not sick.
i think so. but out of an abundance of caution my colleague has taken it upon herself to do one more test.
you scare me a little.
i've been considering applying to doctors without borders. going overseas a while and that seems like a huge sacrifice. but you<U+0097>
where?
unbelievable.
morning. got you a coffee.
oh that's fine. keep it.
we looked at his heart yesterday didn't see any structural abnormalities. i'm thinking occult long qt syndrome?
benjamin's been taking allergy medication the last few weeks. long qt syndrome can be medication-induced.
(to house) i still don't think it's neurological. (park sits beside adams)
he lost his wife because she couldn't accept not being filthy rich.
even? it was a gift. an insignificant token. there was nothing owed. that was the whole point.
why?
she's the crazy one.
you're not a stranger. and your perverse view of the world is making you force a neurological component onto an obviously cardiological<U+0097>
there's a whole list of drugs that could have caused his symptoms.
that comes with a rash. echovirus.
fits his physical symptoms. and could but doesn't necessarily cause personality changes. (house and park look at her) works for everyone?
can you do me a favor?
[scoffs] i want you to have them.
it was a two-for-one sale. i couldn't resist. i need to justify buying them.
the first pair were $120. these (returning them back to park) were free.
was it santa? (walks out)
arrhythmia's back. he's on heparin and stable for now but this could put him at risk for stroke or embolism.
he'd have localized pain.
almost always hits the kidneys.
you can't let him do this.
i assume you dosed the patient because you're really certain he has a neurological condition?
nothing.
i just i thought it was interesting she couldn't accept that coffee. i wanted to see how deep it went.
oh now i just want to win.
gift certificate. the spa.
arrhythmia muscle tremors and yes mental changes. if his heart doesn't rupture he's liable to rip it out and give it away.
could be coxsackie b virus.
and if it is acute intermittent porphyria that would explain why his symptoms keep recurring.
i'll start him on hematin.
you mentioned your car was in the shop.
smile and say thank you. or i get you g.p.s.
considering i don't work here arguably i'm early.
i was at a job interview.
thad barton? we only help rich white guys?
atropine poisoning. he's moving his company to china and his employees are hanging him in effigy. could have moved on to the real thing.
he's destroying thousands of jobs.
i'll go check on the patient. [she gets up and whispers in house's ear as he is about to bite into the burger.] i have hepatitis c.
ah great. his vision's back to normal and if he remains asymptomatic through the night we'll be able to release him in the morning.
no offense but uh i think it's terrible your dad's closing down all your american operations.
i need an intubation kit in here!
angiography showed a hemorrhagic site in the left lower lobe.
blood count and protein count are normal.
myelodysplastic syndrome.
well their company's making a decision i strongly disagree with.
myelodysplastic syndrome.
i was at a job interview.
i wasn't at a funeral.
if he has myelodysplastic syndrome he'll bleed out.
i guess that would be me.
will you be instituting worker safety regulations in your new factories?
what about juice boxes in the break room for the children you'll be hiring?
i am so sorry.
not interesting. already went away.
i remember you saying something about how loyalty to real estate was stupid.
i had a thought. other than the fact that loyalty is the basis of all meaningful relationships. the daughter said that her mother died of non-hodgkin's lymphoma. what if she was misdiagnosed?
her lymphoma could have been caused by a virus htlv-1 which our patient contracted through having sex with his wife.
i know this is hard and i'm sorry about your wife. if you'd like to talk to someone we do have grief counselors at the hospital.
you were ceo since 1988. you decided to move your company right after your wife died. it stands to reason that your emotions factored in.
so your daughter was wrong. you just really need a lot of money.
your heart rate is speeding up. do you feel any tightness in your chest?
i think you're having a heart attack. [she puts a mask over his mouth to help him breathe.]
ekg and troponins were equivocal. it's not even clear if our patient just had a heart attack or what it was.
and you want to do some insider trading? i take it felonies aren't a violation of your parole?
no.
i'm not loaning my boss money.
i could do $5000.
if you double your clinic hours. six a week. i've seen how you disrespect those patients.
spend more hours with them you'll treat them more humanely.
deal?
patient had v-tach in the echo lab so we capped him but coronary arteries were clean.
wait he was drunk? in the hospital?
no sign of any electrical abnormalities in the right atrium.
i thought you don't like favors.
i hardly know you.
o2 sat is 89. did we perforate? is he tamponading?
then why isn't he saturated?
20?
and extrapolating tomorrow you'll owe just shy of $1 million.
i'm not angry. i don't know if you're trying to make me angry.
so if i give you $200000 i'll feel smart and pretty.
can we go now?
that makes sense. you'd rather have house fire you than foreman?
do you have any medical justification for your diagnosis?
no you need to go prepare for your hearing.
15 more minutes mr. barton.
and why are you asking me about it?
what would house want with a skin resurfacing laser?
that's completely normal. no but house has been talking about how badly he wants to remove those prison tats.
how expensive?
i have no idea.
you're covering for him. i did the same thing many times. my advice to you <U+0097> figure out what line you aren't willing to cross for him. because eventually he'll ask you to cross it.
how are your feet? [the patient doesn't answer.] mr. barton? can you hear me mr. barton? [she checks his pulse.] oh no.
i'm the one who did the test.
i can't believe you did that.
it's gotta be normal pressure hydrocephalus. andrews predicted the coma.
if you didn't think he was right then why did you want us to collect his spinal fluid?
you have a wonderful way of communicating.
yes! now i'm angry. let's run the test for normal pressure hydrocephalus.
no we already tested his liver enzymes. they're normal.
that's desperate. fits the symptoms. and andrews is a hack. go biopsy to confirm. unless you want your own hearing.
you'd have to hire me first.
we'll know in a few hours. how are you holding up?
i thought you'd rather see the company go under in new jersey than thrive in china.
you don't have to sign it. i'll let you know when we have the results.
biopsy was clean. it's not his liver. i also ran the spinal fluid test and you were right that andrews was wrong. his icp was not normal. it was elevated. what about htlv?
because of his heart problems but<U+0097>
eastern equine encephalitis?
you paged me?
it wasn't my boyfriend. it was my husband. i was at my lawyer's office signing the divorce papers.
we've been separated for almost a year.
male patient went into v-fib but shows no signs of heart disease
he got them playing flag football.
why lie about it?
we think you were having sex but memory loss could also be a symptom. maybe we should ask your wife.
your guilt is between you and your wife. we just need to know what happened.
well don't look at me. but if you want to
that's not what you wanted to tell her. you said the game wasn't typical. something happened that you were upset about?
[a little breathless] we still can't rule it out. his e.k.g. from the e.r. documented
i'd want my husband to tell me the truth.
all right we need you to sit back and try to relax. just look at the light.
he doesn't have photic epilepsy.
we just met. don't you think it's a little early to be dragging up our baggage in front of each other?
i know when house went to prison you quit medicine. <U+0097> you don't do that unless
house didn't even know he was coming back.
now that has baggage stamped all over it.
seizure activity?
i'll fix it.
not a pheochromocytoma.
and his urine and blood tests didn't show any evidence of an adrenaline-secreting tumor.
[assisting] that's not a clot.
lymphoma. we need to take a biopsy.
i don't know.
his sclera's jaundiced. i think it's his liver. it's failing.
we did a major operation for no reason. it's not lemierre's syndrome.
which it's not. biopsy was clean.
the blast will fry what's left of his liver. the cure will kill him.
we he him on the donor list for a liver. but these things take time.
it's a possibility. but we have another option. we can do a partial liver transplant from a living donor.
it's a major surgery. the donor spends a week in the hospital and up to three months convalescing at home.
i told him to tell his wife he cheated not confess every sin he's ever committed.
everybody doesn't lie cheat or steal from their friends.
some people think it's burning now. maybe if everybody didn't lie
chase you need to check this out. this is a c.t. scan of his liver from ten hours ago this is from now.
and maybe starting to go away.
what kind?
is another one hooking up with 38-year-old married men?
he's shedding his skin like a snake.
nothing's changed.
they were good parents.
syphilitic vasculitis would explain the t.i.a. and the pericardial inflammation.
what if he has a heightened immune system?
sjogren's could have given him chronic pericarditis and cerebral arteritis.
they actually have two completely different derivations. (when taub looks at her she shakes her head) no they don't.
low white count suggests infection.
and you're offering one bad semester as proof that my parents screwed me up?
i went through a rebellious phase.
sorry to mess with your worldview but i'm not messed up so my parents couldn't have messed me up.
you realize you're making house's argument for him.
no the part where he said that baby doesn't need you. you've only got her a couple days a week and most of that's spent with a rotating cast of nurses.
first cousin's also a whiff.
i don't want to lie. i don't want to validate his ridiculous theory.
you're a smart successful doctor. how much damage could you have?
my parents have a lot of money but they didn't make it legally.
it started with card games. high-stakes poker. then my dad got into narcotics at first just selling but then using too or he never would have gotten into the slave trade. children mostly. easier to pack in small crates. plus the shipping's a lot cheaper.
it's not an infection. we tried antibiotics but he's not responding.
your bigger problem is the people who design those things aren't idiots.
well what about the patient? is the problem hyperammonemic or synthetic?
i'm not mad. i'm being professional.
angioneurotic edema can cause rapid swelling.
cholesterol emboli?
we're not done.
i meant the kid. we're not gonna tell him he was molested?
to tell him the truth. he's a virgin. how do we explain the std? it's a medical diagnosis. screw the parents. the kid's our patient.
clever tactic pretending you're not interested anymore.
you're wrong. the only evidence you have is proof of something else. i ran away from home.
because i didn't. all my friends' parents were divorced or having affairs or barely knew their kids' birthdays.
i-i thought it made them deeper somehow.
it was stupid. i hitchhiked to manhattan moved in with an older guy. in two months i came running home. it took my parents years to get over it.
how does briefly wishing i was screwed up make me screwed up?
it's why i wanted to work with you.
this patient died five years ago.
i thought it was relevant.
[handing chase a copy of the file] last thing she ate was strawberry cake but allergy tests for everything were negative.
what if it's not an allergic reaction? hereditary angioedema or systemic mastocytosis could mimic anaphylaxis.
elevated bp. what about pheochromocytoma?
she's not on any meds.
and the tox screen was clean.
nobody's here to bust you iris. we just need to know if
what exactly were you doing when you had your reaction?
you feeling any pain or cramping here?
pregnancy would explain all of her symptoms. can even cause some unpredictable allergic reactions.
we just need a drop of blood.
[voice] she is pregnant. test came back positive.
[voice] vasculitis.
cool.
how was the brazilian?
what about house's theory? why'd you really do it?
and you weren't before?
what's the matter?
[puzzled] paresthesia's gone.
a vitamin k deficiency or scurvy could explain bleeding problems and pregnancy could exacerbate it.
thought you only had clinic on tuesdays.
bp just went to 140 over 90.
[reading the symptoms that haven't been crossed out] pregnancy vaginal bleeding and elevated b.p.
worst case could be an ectopic pregnancy.
not seeing an embryo in the fallopian tube.
i did one of them. chase did another. taub did a third. three tests three positives. what happened to your eye?
i think he said exoplanets.
[nodding] which could also be caused by choriocarcinoma which affects the placenta mimics pregnancy and causes elevated bp and vaginal bleeding.
she's responding well. [leaves]
i treated an inmate once with similar symptoms after he tried to poison his cellmate with chlorine gas.
chlorine gas pools near the ground he thought he'd be safe in the top bunk.
wait why would you think his wife poisoned him?
no it's not. it was a 50/50 choice. i'm totally fine with taub or park.
and i'll take park.
it's this new curve control thing. it automatically slows the car when it senses i'm taking a curve too fast.
there's nothing to talk about. house liked poking ant hills with a stick when he was a kid and now he wants to do the same with us.
yeah the fact that we work well together. he thrives on conflict and is looking for someone to torment. don't let it be us.
no pesticides fertilizers or fuel in the garage. you find anything?
maybe we should look again.
well even if a neighbor saw us break in and called 911 unless they said we were armed it's low priority. we've got another five minutes.
good point. (starts walking out)
yeah so?
you've got to be kidding me. a second ago you wanted to run like hell and now you want to look for secret passages?
(handing the magnet) here.
or break into it.
then you have creepy neighbors because there were photos of you and your kids all over.
you're not gonna believe this.
how'd you know?
that's ridiculous.
oh shut up. we know what you're trying to do and it's not gonna work.
stop being so
(to park) i think you're a good person and a fine doctor but it's ridiculous to think anyone needs an arsenal of assault weapons he's obviously paranoid. what about fahr's disease?
as far as we know. we should do a mental status examination and get a ct of his basal ganglia.
no we don't. we have a reasoned disagreement.
and it's not a fight. (the team walks out)
it's not looking good for fahr's either. i'm not seeing any calcifications.
(pointing) see?
we all disagree all the time. it's not just me and park.
so why didn't you want to go with her this morning?
she's not weird. she's a good doctor.
am i weird?
you're weird.
maybe we should just concentrate on the medicine.
that's not medicine.
what do you think?
how did you know?
and you?
you hunt kangaroos? but they're so cute.
you're screwing with me.
he also spiked a fever overnight. it could be tb.
his paranoia started at least a year ago.
i agree with her.
points again to paranoia.
or it's been chronic which points to gad autoimmunity. explains the neurological impairment as well as the normal blood work.
which will kill him if it's a gad autoimmunity.
or it's gad and we started treatment too late.
you just said you wanted to increase the steroids and now you want to just<U+0097>
but<U+0097>
this is ridiculous. every moment we waste looking for a phantom infection is time we could be treating him.
if it was infection there would be some sign of it in his blood or cns. which there isn't.
at least we know tracheal edema isn't from anything we did because we're not doing anything.
by who? his wife wasn't even here when he hallucinated.
now we're the ones being paranoid.
hey.
that's really dark.
ct confirms no skull fracture. and looking at her confirms she's not 18.
we can't treat an underage patient without a guardian. we need to call social services.
would explain the lack of fever. pneumococcus is pretty common among the homeless population. we should find out if she's been vaccinated.
how about we don't believe she's gonna bolt and we call social services?
when i was your age i ran away. lived on my own. at the time it seemed<U+0097>
the stuff might tell us more about why you're sick. a history textbook. you go to school?
they did a bunch of vaccinations including pneumococcus. take her off the ceftriaxone.
not exactly. the name she registered under seems to be fake but the address is a foreclosed house. we'll let you know what we find.
[opening another cupboard] and beer.
how can you be okay with this? your mom sends you to work with snacks.
maybe. [looking under the sink with a flashlight] but this mold definitely is.
you may have a fungal infection. you need that medicine.
i don't think so.
we didn't call social services before because we didn't want the patient to take off. now she can't. there's no reason for us not to call.
you want to protect her because you think she's fine on her own outside the system.
not once i call social services. i'm not giving up.
no. why would i agree?
pull!
looks like it. and social services.
she's tired of living on the streets after all. i'll bet house re gret [she stares at the social worker's open-toe pumps with three-inch heels.] could he know i'm good with a gun?
what happened to the social worker i called?
thank you. i'll leave you and dr. pujols alone. [leaves]
they are kind of boring. all kids not just yours.
you need to log more hours. eventually you'll pass boredom and get to bonding. kind of like stockholm syndrome.
because you shouldn't be living on your own.
we don't know if you're better yet. you can't just take off.
you bet 100 bucks on a turtle race?
the bleeding stopped on its own. she got worse after being on steroids so autoimmune is out.
how'd the mom seem to you?
you should have seen her face when mom walked in. callie hates her. i don't think she's lying.
the bleeding is in her gut. could be zollinger-ellison. acid reflux causes asthma and the acid erodes the stomach causing the bleeding.
ellen shouldn't have consent if she beat her daughter.
is that an issue? it's a medical procedure. there will be some discomfort.
and yet you hit her.
and now you're gonna tell me you didn't. [she starts to walk away.]
your mom didn't hit you did she?
then why'd you lie about it?
tell me. maybe i'll understand.
[nods] your mom knows she messed up. she's determined not to do it again.
do you think people can change?
stop. is that an ulcer?
ulcer's bleeding. [the screen goes red.]
hpv was covered on the std panel. she's negative. what if she didn't get this from being homeless? what if she got it from her mom?
i'm thinking addiction. alcohol-induced esophagitis.
her blood pressure's been elevated. could be the dts.
ct didn't show any signs of an aneurysm.
alcoholism and berry aneurysm are both valid theories. i think we should discuss this with the patient and her mom.
no. i think your symptoms are the result of alcohol abuse.
you came to the hospital with beer in your pocket. we found more alcohol at your house.
the patient asked me what i thought.
it's her choice. she has the right to know!
you think she wants to feel responsible for her daughter's illness?
house don't bully her. she's overwhelmed enough.
social services report came in on your mom.
i think she might make it this time. house left a bottle of vicodin to see if she'd steal it. she gave it back. you could at least let her sleep in the room.
because it she's your mom. and for the first time she's acting like it.
i was wrong. the berry aneurysm must have just burst.
temporal lobes are clear. parietal clear.
ventricles are clear too.
posterior cerebral clear. vertebral clear. circle of willis also clear. she doesn't have a berry aneurysm.
pressors will only give us a couple hours max.
that's everything bad that's happened. what about the good stuff?
she got a little better when we put her on steroids which can attack tumor cells. maybe she has cancer.
she and her mom mentioned a trip they took to florida a couple years ago <U+0097>what about dengue fever? cholera?
getting along with her mother?
callie agrees with you that people don't change. she said when her mom slips again she didn't want to be there. she'd rather remember her like she is now.
you got the ending you wanted.
[voice] get me sutures on a kelly.
[voice] get o.r. ten unpacked. alert trauma.
why would i be trying to make him look bad?
i don't think it was his fault.
ekg was normal.
[calmly] i didn't do it.
is that what he called it?
house prefers chaos over cohesion. he believes that disagreement and mistrust lead to better ideas. he's not wrong.
they worked. our patient woke up.
[checking his eyes] that's normal. you've been in a coma for several hours. can you tell me your name?
can you wiggle your fingers for me?
the student aide was just trying to make a viral video not hurt anyone. ended up doing both. so we figured the patient inhaled the extra large dose of hydrofluoric acid and
burned his lungs which is why he coughed up blood.
[speaking quickly with the front of her blouse pulled up over her nose] maybe we can use a bronchoalveolar lavage to wash 'em out with water.
house ordered a therapeutic bath first to wash off any residual chemicals from the blast. but we wound up finding something.
you have a bit of a rash. can you raise both your arms? i just need to see how far it goes.
ju-just relax.
it'll just take a minute. we just need to get a good look at the rash.
freak out is a little strong. in my opinion at the time it was the rash that was gonna kill him. invasive strep.
what are you doing?
thanks.
at the time it seemed like a good idea.
two ccs lidocaine.
[shouting] code grey!
code grey!
get haloperidol.
oh my god chase.
come on. the bleeder's got to be in here. [some blood spurts on her face as she feels around.] got it.
it's his heart.
fortunately only the knife tip reached the cardiac muscle. made a laceration in the left ventricle about the size of the tip of my index finger. at that moment he could only stay alive as long as my finger plugged the hole. [her voice shakes.] it could have been me on the floor. it should have been me. it was my theory. i held the needle in front of the patient that set off his paranoia. if you're looking for someone to blame blame me.
getting some ectopy.
regular?
got a pvc.
i can't take my finger out. he'll bleed. i don't think he can take it.
on my count.
one two three.
[in disbelief] you're ddx-ing?
she's not pregnant.
shut up.
you're in the pacu. been in surgery. the anesthesia's just wearing off.
that'd mean the damage was permanent.
sensory level is at l5. it must be the descending branch.
house not now.
(to chase) how you feeling?
ketosteroid levels are low. how can he be hyper-sexual?
what if he's right about the blockage but wrong about the cause? vasospasm.
you okay?
you saved my life too. i think the ledger's clear. but how can you not be traumatized?
so you're zen about it but won't let go of your anger toward house? i'm seeing a trauma counselor. i think you should too.
forget nun you slept with a patient?
you're not gonna operate on her.
your judgment's compromised.
(to house) tell him!
you're trying to score points with him at the risk of a patient's life.
you clamp now she could stroke out.
you're trying to make sure she's either perfect or dead.
you don't know that you will. and you can't know because you can't think clearly about her.
(looking up at the clock) we're over five minutes.
i'm sorry.
that's why i did this. three weeks ago you never would have slept with a patient. and you never would have operated on her after. you need help.
by breaking the rules not caring what anyone else thinks. you're gonna get away from him by turning into him? (adam's pager beeps)
right upper quadrant pain and distension.
(taking the chart from the nurse) nothing. this is your liver.
then we have to assume liver failure is just another symptom of whatever she's got.
normal ace level.
would have seen it on the mri.
i'm good. [he sits as chase joins them.] your limp's almost gone.
patient lacks major risk factors for a p.e. doesn't rule it out just makes it unlikely. maybe we start with a d-dimer?
who's that?
can't imagine the same advice works for both audiences. guess you shifted with the market?
and our patient's a true believer about the follies of masculinity. he underwent a spiritual overhaul three years ago. he also went off gluten and red meat. unfortunately that doesn't explain any of his symptoms.
what's absurd about a change of heart? what this guy believes is making him a better person. he's going against his baser instincts.
i feel surprisingly okay with that.
this is dr. house. he has a theory.
low testosterone is off the table as a symptom. guy got his nuts cracked three years ago. don't need to look much further than that.
how is it you can retain every detail of our habits and personal lives and none of this?
meaning you.
meaning you or taub.
doesn't have to be meaningless at all. the right person could turn it into something. get the department running smoothly.
house is the head of the department. it's only fair that a woman should hold the other position of authority.
this is anesthetic. it's a scary diagnosis. but advances are being made. several drugs approved just this year.
loss of testosterone could have been a factor but think of it as a catalyst. it got you to reevaluate. now you know what's important. you can choose to hold onto that. right?
you really think this guy's gonna hulk out once the hormones kick in?
periventricular and subcortical white matter are clean. so you're saying masculinity is ingrained and irrational.
by extension you're also saying femininity is enlightened and rational. it's the way we should all be guys just are incapable of it.
go ahead. [to taub] guess he doesn't have m.s.
is it your hand?
[at the conference table] it's not a brain tumor or we would've seen it on the scans. eye exam didn't offer anything conclusive.
but you're way too smart to fall for a blatant bribe like that.
all i'm doing is my job. house has indicated that he considers me attractive. there's nothing wrong with me using my strengths to my advantage.
how are you feeling?
testosterone does tend to perk you up.
if you need to leave you should. i'm fairly confident our patient's got sarcoidosis.
liver problems could be a sign of celiac. he's been back on gluten since he's been in the hospital. yesterday he had a burger.
without a rash.
we just need to do an intestinal biopsy to confirm.
[entering] do you need a few minutes?
hopefully after this dose you'll start to feel better and we can get you home. [she looks at this lunch plate with the remains of a sandwich and a few veggies on it.] but i'd like to do one more test.
abdominal biopsy showed flattened villi. looks like you were right about celiac.
good comparison since both patients were tweaked on steroids.
we were right. i proved it and the patient didn't bleed out. why are you being a jerk about this? let's go see if house is back.
so much for celiac.
and he has major symptoms of celiac without actually having celiac.
i hear it's good for the butt. what about a parasitic infection? strongyloides is known to damage the small intestine.
which is what we thought until his blood tests showed a controlled sugar level and no ketones.
where exactly are you?
why would any<U+0097>
who are you hiding from?
not seeing any seizure activity in response to low frequency sounds. i'm starting him on mid-range.
blind people can't have attractive girlfriends?
how do you know it wasn't her idea?
they're a little young to get married don't you think?
he's seizing. sound frequency's at 300 hertz.
blood. i don't see any blockage.
just relax and breathe.
where are you now?
help me hold him down.
i'm putting epilepsy back on the table.
i'll find her. [starts to leave]
when were you planning on telling her that before or after you ask her to marry you?
[sarcastic] that's very considerate of you.
well what's stopping you?
he's a dick.
what he's doing now to that girl isn't fair.
and now she thinks they're back together.
i do but
not good news for him or park.
where's park?
good news for park. i've never seen one present this large before.
any hyper-coagulable state. lupus?
[applying the bandage to will's eyes] i think it's unfair that you're leading on a woman who obviously loves and cares about you.
you need to tell her that.
when she finds out you bought an engagement ring for another woman that option is out the window.
what changed?
she wanted you to be sure about your relationship. i can see how that would be annoying.
so you were hurt so much you had to marry the next woman you met?
how are you feeling?
coughing up blood. that doesn't really change anything. hemoptysis is a symptom of behcet's.
if we do that and he starts hemorrhaging we won't be able to stop the bleeding.
we see people with disabilities all the time but seeing and understanding aren't always the same thing.
i'm saying we should have picked up on the degeneration in his eyes sooner. we ignored them because we assumed they weren't even part of the equation. i also realized intellectually i may understand what it means to be disabled but emotionally i didn't have a clue. apparently his girlfriend didn't either.
it's not a side. it's a perspective. he just wants to be treated like an adult make his own decisions. i may not agree with all of them but how the hell can i judge him?
[entering] will? it's dr. adams and dr. chase. we just need to know<U+0097>
except we've already treated him with broad-spectrum antibiotics. it shouldn't be spreading. it should be dying.
it's something that looks and acts like a bacteria but isn't one. could be viral.
we treated him with gentamicin when we thought it was bacterial which means the dose of amphotericin b we'll need to cure him will probably leave him deaf.
you will be.
there's a chance your hearing won't be completely gone.
a small one. but a chance.
he's still very ill but if he keeps responding the way he has been he should be fine.
it's gone. we don't know yet if it'll be permanent.
we've been squeezing his hand once for yes twice for no.
army apparently thought they were clearing an insurgent hideout. after this was leaked on saturday the a.p. investigated.
34 civilian casualties. six kids.
leishmaniasis.
he risked his freedom.
(reaching for the pills) give those back.
something's going on with house. he just seemed off. didn't even notice that i walked out of the room with this. (she holds up house's red coffee mug)
do i need to explain the physiology behind birth control? attention deficit in a man who has no attention deficits has to be symptomatic of something.
could be dietary. refsum.
or serotonin syndrome. i'm not saying he's definitely sick. i'm just saying we should look into it.
(pouring water from a pitcher into a glass) we think the long flight home allowed clots to form in your leg.
take this pill. (brant swallows the pill) if you feel any numbness in your leg after a few minutes it means we're right and you should get comfortable because you're gonna be here for a while.
did he die in service? if it was something genetic it could help us.
i'll get the discharge papers.
he's not faking.
he's not contesting the treason charges. if his code of honor is that strong he's not gonna bother faking symptoms.
a distal esophageal rupture can lead to compartment syndrome in his thigh <U+0097> explains both symptoms.
(holding out a paper to house) i need your signature on this order. the army's leaning on foreman to make sure this is done by the book.
this last treatment wasn't a treatment.
i will. from now on. but i need the original so i know what to forge.
i'm sorry.
i need to talk to you.
(holding up some papers as wilson strips off his gloves) my ppth contract. house signed it six months ago. he signed this today. (she holds up the treatment order house signed)
his hands are unsteady. given his vicodin abuse i think he has hepatic encephalopathy. he's been forgetful inattentive.
maybe. but if i'm right his liver's in decline. it's curable but if he doesn't get treatment it could actually be fatal.
pressure's rising.
he's clotting but ct confirms splenic nodules.
you defend the patient for being a whistleblower then attack him for being an honorable whistleblower. now you defend him for being a maligned honorable whistleblower?
if cancer caused his seizures we would have seen cerebral masses on his head ct.
house never loses.
we have to talk to foreman.
so we should wait until he kills someone for confirmation?
what if we aerosolize steroids and blast the room?
you set this up?
it's completely cyanotic. this isn't sarcoidosis.
it's not an embolization. no instrumentation inside the arteries.
and if we start you on treatment now get you off vicodin<U+0097>
if we had a patient file with the same symptoms you're exhibiting
we'll have a stronger argument if we go to foreman as a united front.
you want to reject our current diagnosis because he had a few gray hairs panicked and shaved his head?
it's not grave's because it's not a symptom at all. and the antithyroids you want could reduce his blood pressure and his ability to breathe. which can result in side effects like death.
you're cold?
he's at 104.
we did more blood work it's not graves either.
white count is high. so all the infections we ruled out when he came in are back on the table.
i told foreman.
no it's not. the army issues anti-malaria medication.
he changed his mind? why?
his brother was dying the last time we asked him to be the conservator. so instead of pushing the issue with the army to get the file he just decided to give up on his code?
gonorrhea? if it got into his heart
he's a hockey player?
until now. x-ray ruled out traumatic sequelae overt tb and lung cancer.
he's a duck hunter. he could've contracted psittacosis from exposure to fowl.
you have to be pretty good to get called up.
no because she doesn't have an agenda.
explains the liver and the spleen but hemoptysis is a stretch. what about leptospirosis?
really? the guy released the puck at least a second before the hit.
aside from the crying he's actually recovering nicely.
he's only had three concussions since he was ten. it's not enough to cause cte.
lyme disease could cause paralysis. if he was hunting he'd be exposed to ticks.
we need to start the antitoxin<U+0097>
polio. some kids were never vaccinated.
how long are you gonna be using the office for sex games? just so i can plan my day.
could also be cavernous sinus thrombosis. clot builds up pressure at the base of the brain.
do you wanna try her cell? be here for a few more hours at least.
okay. you like cards. but you can juggle. i fail to see how this would be of benefit to you.
ct showed no clots or malformations. park and taub ruled out lymphocytosis and diabetes.
patient's got a mysterious girlfriend he really wants to see. she's unreachable by phone and the neighbor's never even seen her.
i think he's a junkie. the girlfriend is a fix. the guy's inhaling glue.
can you bite me? go search the patient's home. well thank you ladies. i've seen a lot of very talented candidates. got a tough decision the next few days. [he grabs a file with the resumes and puts it in his bag pack.] this is the part i hate. [he leaves his office.]
doesn't exactly look like a woman lives here either.
okay. she exists. doesn't mean he's not a drug addict.
yeah i'm not crazy about the whole hooker thing but i get it. other than the fact that it's exploitative and dangerous for women you get what you need without any of the emotional baggage.
i've been volunteering at the trenton free clinic. keeps me busy.
what's more important <U+0097> making small talk over ravioli or helping people who are less fortunate?
let's just say i'm not hungry right now.
oh god
i don't think she's breathing. do you think she od'd?
no.
i don't think that's gonna be necessary.
my favorite woody allen movie is melinda and melinda. [house makes a face.] our patient is not a junkie but he does have a girlfriend. [back with chase and adams on the phone in henry's bedroom. the girlfriend is now sitting on the bed: it is a plastic doll!]
does the doll talk to you?
so is your toaster.
bleeding plus two new symptoms. fever and neurological.
you don't have sex with your cat or teddy bear.
you think anything off about any patient is a symptom. this guy buys flowers. real flowers for a piece of plastic in a dress.
what about the patient?
i've never done a pelvic on a doll before. i'm unfamiliar with the protocol. [she sits down in front of the doll's legs and looks a bit stunned.] i'm pretty skeeved out right now. i'm not gonna lie.
basically you're explaining why you're not going to ask me out.
yeah. i told park to tell taub to tell house to pass you that note. [looking at the sampling] it's completely clean in there.
ct showed an air-filled mass in the doll's abdomen. it's probably just a chemical reaction. henry left her too close to a heating pipe or something.
more likely than it getting stomach cancer.
it doesn't explain the neurological issue.
you sure? it won't be able to heal when we're done.
yes.
it's not a her which means we can do this anywhere. [she opens up the doll's shirt and takes her scalpel.]
i think the procedure room might be better for this.
thank god. you got here just in time. what do you have against him?
just like last week when he was prying into your relationship with chase? it was silly then and it's silly now.
wow. do you resent me? you're the quirky hardworking sophomore and i'm the evil cheerleader who steals boys? if you're not getting any it's not my fault.
we're growing cultures now but she looked clean and there was no telltale smell. i'm guessing the lump was just an air bubble that got trapped in the mold.
i threw in some stitches too. just wanted to make her look her best. do you want me to put her in her chair? [suddenly henry falls down in pain he seems to be unable to breathe.] henry? [to the nurses] call a code!
we heard crackles in henry's lungs. we diuresed him but he still needs oxygen.
crackles are nonspecific. hypoxia plus bleeding could indicate d.i.c. or some other<U+0097>
kind of.
air bubble in the doll could mean the silicone is degrading. if he hailed some particles
no you might feel a little cold though.
right upper quadrant's distended. he's hallucinating because his liver's failing.
it's clearly not the silicone. could be vasculitis.
how about all five of us live together and the $7000 sex doll? it'll solve all our hang-ups.
hepatic fibrosis wouldn't cause difficulty breathing.
we called the company that made amy. they said they modeled her after some photos you sent them. [she shows him one of the pictures on a cell phone.] who is she?
my husband cheated on me with a girl he met on the plane coming back from our honeymoon. it's not easy to get past things like that.
i know amy's not going to break your heart. but she's also not going to change your life.
is your neck stiff?
i think you have meningitis.
fever's up 105. he's not responding to meds. at this rate he'll be dead by the time we get the cultures back.
but not liver failure.
maybe he sprained his chakras.
your fever's gone and your liver function's almost back to normal. you should be able to go home soon.
what for?
it's not that. it's<U+0097>
henry i-i think you should ask molly out.
you're a good guy henry. you deserve more than a doll. promise me you'll keep trying.
do you
want to get a drink?
oh i it's just um i think it's time for a change.
yeah. [chase leaves.]
what about obstructive sleep apnea?
or an upper respiratory infection.
ptsd could definitely cause breathing problems<U+0097>
even if the kid wasn't there just hearing what the dad did<U+0097>
ultrasound didn't suggest any intestinal blockages but he's severely constipated.
we need to scope him and we're gonna need to clear his bowel first.
for an impacted bowel?
look this needle isn't nearly as big as the one in your arm and that didn't hurt did it?
what's he saying? what's the problem?
the grandfather speaks hmong. he translated.
rasmussen's encephalitis. diffuse spotty inflammation could hit the autonomic centers of the brain.
coagulopathy? lung problems cause a clotting disturbance.
i refuse to divulge my dreams about girl-on-girl loofa action. the bruising could indicate anemia a vitamin c deficiency or even leukemia.
hepatic fibrosis could hit someone his age.
angle a bit more superiorly.
biopsy was negative for fibrosis.
yes.
he was floating 6 inches off the bed.
we checked the bed. there were no platforms or wires. this wasn't a trick.
lue? how you feeling? any stronger? lue can you hear me?
i'm not sure. lue i need you to squeeze my hand. he's not responding. [to nurse] get me an amp of d50!
he's got normal carotid pulses.
and since when do you care about credit?
which means he needs a coronary bypass.
it's a billion-to-one.
[snaps at house] you're wrong. [calmer] but the treatment's just ibuprofen. closes the malformed duct. worst-case scenario he just doesn't get better
his b.p.'s dropping.
[to lida] you need to stop this! [she gestures at xang who is still shaking the bells.] i'm giving him the ibuprofen.
um no it didn't. mrs. cheng the medicine i administered was a long-shot treatment for lue's heart but that's what's helping him.
i know it seems hard to believe but it's true.
(putting on her lab coat) a bad sign. you think the apocalypse is coming because house wants to be there for wilson?
it says she fell off a carousel. head trauma<U+0097>
(leaning over the bed) it means magic really cool images.
how you feeling in there emily?
is something wrong?
uh that's<U+0097>
what do you think of her mother? she called her daughter the patient.
stress can also precipitate the condition.
there are other kinds of stress. she heard you and your husband
you think she'd even let emily down here?
you ever heard of lex-2?
doesn't mean she's giving it to her daughter. anyone studying a-t would be researching it.
she's your child not a guinea pig.
she's prone to respiratory infection. pneumonia?
red blood counts are normal. could be some sort of connective tissue disorder.
elizabeth has. she stopped giving emily the lex-2. it's an aminoglycoside antibiotic. it's what was keeping the lyme in check.
not if the lex-2 was keeping it in check.
maybe we should step outside.
that's because they care so much.
emily what's wrong?
her csf was clean. no bacterial or fungal markers. anyone tried calling house?
and we were able to remove all of it.
that must be very hard. is there anything we can do?
patient's ast is high. psychosis could be brought on by liver failure. maybe hep c?
he handles a lot of 'em. you suggesting we ddx them all?
psychosis appears to be intermittent.
you actually think you can quantify the value of every doctor?
so all we have to do is hydrate and observe him for 24 hours.
you know what house says about coincidences. i didn't feel any masses when i examined him and no bowel sounds.
he hasn't come in yet and neither has wilson. i've already tried them three times.
we already looked for clots and there was no blood in his stool.
treiber won't let us do anything without house.
he hasn't checked his voicemail.
the longer we wait to tell him house isn't running the case the more damage that causes. it's fraud.
it's more than one x-ray. more than exploratory surgery even. this is a drug that will damage him if you're wrong.
pleural effusions. it's not porphyria.
we'll tell him exactly what's happening.
it's possible he was exposed and didn't know it. brains are often stored and not tested until weeks after autopsy.
we'll test the biopsy samples for viruses and start him on antivirals.
where should we start? we think you might be right.
kidneys are fine. vasculitis?
foreman already gave us a case. wants us to keep things as normal as possible for as long as possible.
but not his bloody nose.
he just wants to die with a little dignity.
it's not your choice house. your only choice here is between acceptance and misery.
he denies it but the pet scan says otherwise.
tox screen was clean.
(pulling a photo of a young boy in a bathing suit out of a drawer) look at this. why would he have a picture of a little boy?
hidden in his sock drawer?
we need to talk to derrick about some medical matters.
we found this (pulling the photo out of her pocket) in your dorm room.
then why was it hidden in a drawer?
is that the voice you hear in your head?
if you wanna wait here it'll only take about an hour.
(into the mic) time. any odd tastes or smells?
(coming into the room with derrick) things look fine on my end too. (as she removes the sensor wires) so you won't admit to your doctors that you're hearing your brother's voice which is dangerous. and now you lost your girlfriend over it which is stupid. i assume there's more to the story?
short story.
the boss is losing his best friend to cancer. and instead of talking about the pain he's pretending there is no pain because everything can be fixed.
do you need a tissue?
and yet you kept one.
(pulling up his eyelid to look into his eye) no. this is something else.
sorry.
how many fingers?
there's a clot in the artery behind your eye. i just broke it up.
don't know because i don't know why it happened.
where are we going?
some of our patient's symptoms might be physiological and some might be psychological.
we're going to avoid grief avoidance?
rbcs are slightly elevated but not that much.
what if your guy got hurt at practice? and like everything else just didn't tell anyone. could have set off dic would explain everything.
we're hoping it's just excess fluid on his brain from an extreme migraine which isn't good but it's treatable. he's scheduled to get an mri as soon as these meds start taking effect.
we found that picture in his dorm room. i'm not sure what derrick's told you but he's been hearing christopher's voice for the last ten years. and it's possible that repressing all that grief he's felt is actually causing some of derrick's symptoms.
you think actually showing up for work is enough to make up for ruining an mri endangering the patient injuring us?
you suddenly think you're gonna make a difference?
he'll scream in pain.
you took a new case?
air in his abdomen could mean blah blah blah. blah?
gotta be a clot in his lungs. we need to get him to an o.r.
float a catheter through his heart and his oxygenation will get even worse. he'll die before we can finish the procedure.
what are you doing? what did you give him?
he could've gotten out.
he got me fired. [clarifies] he gave me the guts to get fired.
