house are you okay?
well you just got out. have you had enough time to think this through?
okay.
(to foreman) that was surprising.
you consider waiting until house clears the lobby before you start angling for his job?
not necessarily. departments of diagnostic medicine don't exist. the only reason we have one is because of house.
you're a great doctor. i want you to stay on in neuro. but house was a genius.
(considers for a moment) you get one shot.
hi.
(seeing the woman) oh i didn't mean to intrude i just
you seem good.
house i need to talk to you about your leaving the hospital.
that's fine as long as i'm not the reason for it. i know that sounds completely narcissistic but =
so what am i?
house... i'm gonna miss you.
bye.
i'll get my tools.
what did the lab say?
damn. he's using.
house you've spent the last three months <U+0096>
house you're an addict. you can't be surprised if we can't take you at your word.
house.
(to wilson) thank you for dragging me into this.
not permanently. he is setting up interviews to replace taub and thirteen but it might take a couple of weeks.
dibala is a guest of the us government. and he's been invited to speak at the un. i'm not asking you to love him. i'm asking you to do your job.
a week ago it was the last thing you needed.
then he can't practice. but we'd be idiots not to listen to him. you're in charge he sits in on all the differentials. until you get your license back this is all unofficial. no procedures no patient contact.
you understand that we would be using your blood to cure president dibala.
do it.
if she is i'd rather have a needle prick on my conscience than the death of her family members.
i understand but i told you dr. house isn't available. dr...
he isn't on vacation. dr. foreman's one of our best doctors.
no. foreman is currently working with two of house's most veteran associates.
no. mr. randall your son will be in good hands.
the kid'll still be foreman's patient but his dad wants you making the decisions.
[looks are foreman.] don't let him do anything crazy.
you also need to prepare president dibala's case for this week's morbidity and mortality conference. [chase looks worried.]
not you. foreman's department.
it obviously garnered a lot of curiosity.
it's not idle. the question of how we deal with two possible diagnoses whose treatments are contraindicated is worth discussing. [cuddy leaves. chase looks over at foreman.]
you don't want to do the m&m because you're not in the mood?
they're not his responsibilities. they're yours. you're the one who wanted to be in charge.
then do the m&m. it's all yours.
what the hell's going on here?
everything okay?
thirteen called.
she said someone hacked into her email account and canceled an airline reservation. i'm guessing foreman.
you really want foreman to stay in charge of the team?
you love power and puzzles.
how do you know?
and you believe him?
all right great. [hangs up.]
unless it's life or death it's going to have to wait.
well let me rephrase. unless it's a current life...
i know you guys are busy but he's just going to have to suck it up and make the time.
then what is it?
wasn't what?
who's they?
if you guys screwed something up just come clean. it's not going to be that bad. [leaves.]
what's going on?
mr. randall... [walks over to face him.] i know you're upset. but you shouldn't make a decision like this right now. give it some time.
i need to know what your plans are.
with regards to your employment.
pretend time's been going on long enough.
and i'm gonna have payroll send you over some pretend checks starting tomorrow. you need to complete 120 hours of rounds to re-qualify. [she puts a clipboard on his desk and starts to leave.]
it's a state requirement. i have to certify that you've completed all your require <U+0097>
dr. singh supervises rounds on thursdays. starts at 7.
bravo! it's amazing how you did 120 hours in one day.
from now on i'm gonna supervise your practicum requirements.
you want to annoy another doctor first? eventually...
yesterday you said you weren't ready.
and tomorrow? is it possible for me to get a five-day forecast?
either you did have a problem <U+0096> which i can't ignore. or you were jerking me around <U+0096> which i can't ignore.
for example i can talk to you outside.
[through the glass of the closed door] this is the part where you play the employee and i play the boss.
these kids are trying to
it's inappropriate.
send this in to the state licensing board. [she holds out a piece of paper.] i've signed off on all your hours.
because it's easier this way.
no. going by the book was pointless. you were gonna learn nothing.
there was no sexual tension.
[hands him the paper] here.
you sure you're okay?
we're good... just like this. you press my buttons i press yours.
tell me what you came here for house.
you must be so proud.
oh i feel bad i haven't named your testicles.
i don't know why you chose to give them the names of somebody's aunts.
(taking files back to the cabinet) there's a lot to be done before the weekend.
i'm driving up with wilson.
you weren't on the registration list.
but wilson said<U+0097>
house... 1980s.
how much did it cost you to rent that?
thank you. your leg?
no.
i meant we met before that. in the bookstore.
my third day of school i hand my syllabus to the guy behind the counter. he barely looks at me. just skims the sheet and tells me i'm overly ambitious i have a chip on my shoulder and i know how to party. (she giggles)
(giggling) i said you're making that up. and you said your class schedule is overloaded but none of your classes are before 11:00 and no one takes professor lamb's course unless they have something to prove.
i tracked you down. endocrinology... the party.
and then it didn't.
noo...don't do that. there was no expectations. i was just as into it <U+0096>
(looking upset) i should go to my room and review papers for the infectious disease panel. (she leaves leaving house alone on the dance floor)
we got kicked out. she started crying.
the babysitter had an emergency.
house talked with you?
no he was sweet. i just know better than to rely on that.
yeah. i know. i'm a mother now. i need a guy i can count on every single day. that's never been house. (wilson nods)
oh i thought you were room service. something going on with your patient?
actually i've got her in day care downstairs.
i suspected someone in accounting was skimming money and i wanted to investigate quietly. and since you introduced me to the only detective i know...
i just don't advertise my personal life. i needed help with the baby. lucas drove up.
i don't think we need to talk <U+0096>
yea
(pointing out a ride-on toy car to rachel) what is that?
congratulations.
are you sure about this?
uh he's trying to get his old fellows back?
i am way too busy to play officer of the court.
i don't see that it's any of your business.
i know you're upset with me because i didn't choose to date your best friend. but i'm living my life. and for the first time i'm not gonna change that because of how it might affect him or you.
i feel like crap.
well house is gonna make it about him for us.
shut up. you're right. i'm sorry.
you're leaving at 11:00 a.m.?
foreman told me you're ablating the patient's marrow on a non-theory that foreman himself withdrew. you're gonna kill the patient. is this about me and lucas? [he looks at her and leaves. she follows.] i want alternatives for the patient.
[approaching] i got it. it's all right. [she pulls some bills from a pocket in her skirt and gives them to the cashier.]
go to my sister's for dinner. why?
how 'bout we talk about this? [she hands him a blue folder.] 15-year-old. recurring migraines and blurred vision.
really?
hold on. take this instead. [she swaps the folder she gave him for another one.] i was expecting more resistance.
you're helping. voluntarily.
so which one of us slipped through the wormhole into an alternate dimension?
house... i know you're trying to be nice but i also know you're doing it because you have an agenda.
the question is is this a bad agenda or a good one? either you're trying to screw with me or you're trying to show me that you've really changed.
what are you doing for thanksgiving dinner?
want some wine?
happy thanksgiving.
what did you say to lucas last night?
well i just talked to him. and he said he thought it'd be better if we stopped seeing each other. said he didn't realize how much there still was between you and me and he didn't want to get caught in the middle of us.
i've had enough house. i actually felt bad about scamming you. but then you lived down to my expectations and then some. there is no us. there never will be.
you're gonna be pressing charges?
against chase.
at least three other people saw him do it.
i can't have doctors punching each other out.
and more importantly for chase's sake i need to know if he's able to handle himself or if i should be getting him some help.
i'm not doing this house. it's not fun anymore. just do your job.
how's your nose?
i think i was pretty clear before.
no thanks.
[looking pained.] i don't want them.
i'll see you tomorrow.
house knows i lied.
nothing. i could just tell.
no. [picking up rachel] oh hi. it seems like he's gonna leave us alone.
i'm not completely sure.
i guess so.
that would be nice wouldn't it?
how's tucker?
what does house think?
no it's just not always a good idea for doctors to treat their friends that's all.
um is bonnie still a realtor?
do you mind if i call her? i'm uh looking for a new place. i'm moving in with lucas. (wilson stops and turns to look at cuddy)
yes.
i don't need house's blessing.
(rushing into the room) ah your assistant said you'd be in here. i talked to bonnie.
oh sorry. she found us this fantastic loft.
i mean it's not a loft really it's just more urban. not that i'm urban
(speaking on the phone) thanks bonnie. just gonna have to sit tight for awhile. okay. (she hangs up) (to wilson) i put an offer on the loft. seller turned me down. i offered exactly what a similar unit sold for three months ago.
that's insane.
you have hundreds of patients.
because you're a doctor not a donor.
not because you have the most organs. you're thoughtful caring.
this is coming out of guilt.
okay. (wilson leaves)
and i will be happy to talk about that at your next review... in august.
[looking up] i can't discuss other people's salaries. you know that.
[putting down the blackberry] and who told them how much you make?
salary isn't about fairness. it's about what you can leverage in negotiation. which isn't much without a competing offer on the table. and we both know you don't have one.
well someone does something stupid and insensitive i always figure it was house. good to know it's catching.
i'm not giving foreman a raise because the three of you decided to amuse yourselves.
you two okay with this?
okay then. that is what i will do. and just so you know... i have no idea what you're talking about. i haven't seen foreman in three days.
you cut up my only copy of that photo.
(she follows house to the door of an exam room) not the one of me and lucas. the one from ecuador.
to my dad.
he was holding the camera. that was the last trip we ever took together. and i don't have a digital copy.
she didn't reveal any confidences and she had a valid medical reason to ask about your landscaping class.
and admit to your husband the truth? you're not gonna sue us. we will remove dr. hadley from all patient contact.
but it's for dr. hadley's benefit not yours. we have no obligation to inflict you on her. (cuddy starts to leave but pauses when valerie speaks)
think what you want. by the way your orderly's outside. but i'd wait about another ten minutes if you really want your husband to think you're having radiation treatments.
maybe it's a good thing. he gave your brother a job responsibility.
i understand that house did this to annoy you. but why is he succeeding?
last time.
i'm sorry.
[approaching] 23-year-old just came into the e.r. asked for you.
i don't think his cup size is relevant to his condition. he accidentally shot himself in the foot.
[sighs] is there a reason for this?
this is the emergency you paged me about? [she clears her throat and stands up.]
[plopping bally on his chest] bye.
almost. [she puts a check on a page.] and done. [packing up] i heard house and wilson are getting pranked by someone. you wouldn't know anything about that would you?
why should i believe you?
well that's overstating it. it's just a condo.
we'll buy another one. i just don't see the need to make a war out of it.
(putting on her coat) actually i need to speed up. rachel woke up early with a fever and she's been terrorizing me all morning. (buttoning her coat) i'm already late.
(reaching for her briefcase) bye.
the entire hospital is depending on a proposal i've yet to finish and need to present at 8:30.
it's 7:37.
ignore it.
i said ignore it.
that's great. now i'm late stressed out and frustrated.
it'll wait. (she gets off the bed and looks at herself in the mirror) you can do it.
rachel woke up with a fever and then i...just couldn't get here any sooner.
(to regina) tell them all i'll be by as soon as i can and tell him (nodding back in house's direction) i assumed it was either about the wolf again or the procedure i refused to approve yesterday.
(turning to face house) seriously house i don't have time for this. (she continues toward her office)
i have a meeting in 20 minutes.
(entering her office) i didn't ask what you were talking about because i don't care.
(hanging up her coat) you were with lucas?
(unpacking her briefcase) or the ones he does know actually have lives outside of work.
what made you think we'd <U+0096>
everybody lies. remember?
good-bye house.
figured this would be the one day he comes early. (handing regina some papers) can you proofread this for me?
not today. thank you. i'll be back in five.
i know we're usually fine with two cs reps but i want a few extra hands today just in case. and have it recheck the network. i don't want to hear later that the new lines can only dial out or the computer crashed.
(stepping into the elevator) hopefully nothing. just make sure you're ready if people start calling.
you wanted to see me?
which is?
did you call and ask why?
so fax them the original po.
oscar i don't have time to straighten out your paperwork. where's stan?
so put it on her desk and let her figure it out when she comes back.
oscar not today okay? (she pauses) was it the whole shipment or just one med?
vicodin?
call gail. tell her i want to see her in my office asap.
this place is full of sick people. just get her in here.
(looking back at oscar) now.
oh i got to make a quick trip upstairs. (to regina) can you get the guy in my office a cup of coffee? i'll be right back. (as she leaves the room) i've gotten you coffee before.
(pushing the intercom button) what's wrong?
please tell me you didn't send a 911 page to tell me the heater's broken.
so hurry up.
fine. i will deal with it.
(talking into her phone) i don't care what he told you. turn it back up now.
you're an idiot. what are you gonna do the next time one of your patients needs a liver transplant?
(stopping at the elevator) hourani will be done soon.
marina hey. how's she doing? she vomited? give her some more ibuprofen and put her in the bath for a bit. and call me in a half an hour if it doesn't go down. (her cell phone beeps) sorry marina. i have another call. just call me in a half an hour either way.
(answering the other call) hey. what's up? tell him i'm halfway there. he's the one who insisted on the early meeting. i <U+0096> all right i'm coming.
morning eli. sorry about the wait.
(sitting down behind her desk) so you guys ready to give some ground so we can make this deal?
we've been going at this for eight months.
i'm the one that's unreasonable? you've taken weeks to respond to every proposal i've presented.
yeah. we're not going to. (handing him a file) this is our final offer. we're willing to go with a capitated structure but we need at least 12% increase in reimbursements across the board.
if you don't accept the offer we're gonna terminate the contract.
we're also the best.
i know what you paid bergen newark beth israel robert wood johnson <U+0096>
i've engaged jones/curtin to handle the pr and i'm prepared to make the announcement at 3:00 p.m. today.
you have until 3:00 p.m. to change your mind.
(getting up) thanks. (handing regina a file which was sitting on the corner of her desk) uh take this up to the call center and tell claudia to give one to each cs rep and to start going over the answers to each question.
and under no circumstances is any of this info to go outside that room. the scripts are numbered and i want a list of every person she gives one to.
no.
what have you heard?
me.
you said it was ridiculous.
it is not a bluff and it is not ridiculous. just because we're not some huge <U+0096>
(pushing the elevator door open) i don't care how interesting it is. you are not infecting him with malaria.
i'm sorry dave. i don't really have time right now <U+0096>
i took care of it.
so you didn't want chase but now you're pissed you can't have him?
no dave.
no just refereeing a dispute about the or. so we don't yet have a contract with atlanticnet.
we could have a deal just not the deal we deserve.
we've been at this for eight months. an extension isn't gonna change anything.
i presented a final offer. i told them that we would agree to a capitated structure if they increase reimbursements by 12%.
if they don't accept it by 3:00 we're gonna terminate.
we're not asking for anything they can't afford.
they're paying even more at some places. units that have lower ratings than ours.
sanford they're all about growth and they know they don't get new customers by marketing themselves as the biggest. they do it by claiming they're the best and they can't do that if their patients can't come to us.
he didn't give in but he will. i told him i'd make the announcement at 3:00. he'll call back before then. (long pause) they need us.
(sighing) oh don't tell me. the guy with all the boils needs a liver transplant.
you really need him?
why do you think you have cancer?
so you're under the care of an oncologist?
do you need more painkillers?
human breast milk?
well in newborns it's been shown to reduce future risk.
they said they'd reimburse the cost of breast milk as a cancer treatment?
well actually they have a choice.
no.
i'm not screwing you over.
it won't help you.
no but <U+0096>
this is not about insurance.
i'm sorry.
(to regina) anyone call?
then why is he on call?
be nice if he got somebody who can actually work here. call ereshefsky.
she owes me a favor.
why is he in my office?
hi. i'm dr. lisa cuddy.
hard to avoid since you're already in my office.
(interrupting) how can i help you?
yes i saw that. i also saw the consent forms. they were all signed.
wait. your client accidentally cut his thumb off with a table saw right?
and dr. chase reattached it?
you're saying he didn't want it reattached?
so what did you tell him?
both he and the insurance company are suing to get out of paying the bill. it's over $80000.
you don't need pills to lose weight. there are healthier ways legal ways.
i'm sorry. forging pharmaceutical orders stealing <U+0096>
i won't report the theft to the dea... but i have to fire you.
just take a few minutes to compose yourself then go down to hr and they'll give you your last check.
i know but this is too big. i'm sorry.
(calling marina on her phone as she talks to wilson) got three hours to save this place from bankruptcy i just fired one of my best employees and the woman taking care of my sick child isn't returning my calls.
don't worry. the board will fire me before they allow that to happen.
i just told atlanticnet insurance i'd terminate unless they gave us a 12% bump.
(talking on her phone) marina hey it's me. i haven't heard back from you. can you call me as soon as you can? thank you.
he's either sleeping or avoiding me.
not yet but we're gonna be.
what do you think i should do about atlanticnet?
this situation is out of control enough already. house is the last person i want to get involved.
get out of my chair. and the answer is no.
what do you want?
what is your sudden obsession with malaria?
right. the only money you care about <U+0096> you bet someone you could use malaria as a diagnostic tool?
forget it.
and irresponsible and dangerous.
is not a bet. that is a carefully considered negotiating position.
can you take a look at these per diem schedules? let me know if you see any conflicts.
wasn't a medical mistake.
can't tell you now. she came in.
hey stan! have you audited the ephedrine orders yet?
stan.
today.
i don't care as long as he does it.
(to lucas) what are you doing here?
sure you didn't come looking for more people you could brag about our sex life to?
and what's going on with marina? she hasn't called me back.
so her fever broke?
lucas i'm very busy. does she have a fever or not?
(putting the brown bag on the floor) what rash? she has a rash?
(hanging up the phone) what are you doing to me?
(finally sitting down) not yet.
there's no time. (she pauses and looks up at him) how do you even find these guys?
thanks.
excuse me. you're keith tannenbaum ceo of atlanticnet insurance right?
well actually i think we can help each other. i am dr. lisa cuddy dean of medicine at princeton plainsboro.
well i'm a little unhappy. you're aware that our contract with your company is up this week?
princeton plainsboro has the highest-rated er in the state the most advanced icu and the most innovative diagnostic medicine department in the entire country.
while atlanticnet insurance has a marketing budget that's more than our pediatric icu's and transplant units combined. your pga sponsorship could pay for our walk-in clinic and the money you spend to fuel your two private jets could fund our air ambulance service for the next three years.
your growth may be good for your bottom line but ours allows us to save lives. and i would rather not have to announce to the press how selective your company appears to be when it comes to cutting costs.
i'm busy.
how much?
ten cases?
what the hell have you been doing stan? you're supposed to be managing this place.
didn't you ever cross-check it with the bills that came in?
to whom?
by doing your job.
have you notified the dea?
jeez stan. hello! you don't steal $50000 worth of pills because you want to lose weight. she's supplying a meth lab. just get her back in here.
now.
take it he liked my proposal.
8?
(handing the envelope back to him) i want 12.
8% barely covers our cost inflation.
and shifts all your risk onto us which is why we deserve 12.
what are you doing?
i thought you said <U+0096>
(stopping) what would you do?
about the contract with atlanticnet. i got them to come up to 8% but we should get at least 12.
it's not about my pride. it's about the principle. they're trying to screw us over because we're small.
they should be pressuring other hospitals to be more like us not trying to make us more like them. it's stupid.
you would.
as you know for the past eight months we've been trying to renegotiate our contract with atlanticnet insurance. it's been a difficult process but i wanted to let you all know before we made the formal announcement that as of 5:00 p.m. today our contract with atlanticnet will be terminated. we've doubled the number of customer service representatives in our call center. current patients will still be allowed to remain in our care for 30 days but starting tomorrow we will no longer be accepting patients with atlanticnet health insurance.
come on marina. pick up the phone.
i'm busy.
all right. get him prepped. i'll straighten things out with hourani.
to prove to hourani he doesn't need him?
and what does chase want to do?
and you don't want him to do it because?
so what's the problem?
what?
she's not massaging your leg.
why am i the only person here who cares what happens to this hospital? get off your ass and get your department under control. at least for the next few days.
and you know this how? from all the time you've spent researching them and their other contracts? the way they handle their press relations?
mr. acevedo i am sorry you're having financial difficulties. but because of us you still have a thumb. i assume that's something a carpenter might need.
you have insurance. but by filing this suit you've caused us to get paid nothing by them either.
actually it is since he's responsible for any expense we're not reimbursed. but if you drop the suit and make it clear that dr. chase was acting in your best interest when he reattached your thumb then we'll be able to resubmit the claim.
actually i was thinking more like we'd cover half his deductible which means you'd only owe $16000.
yes. do you have any idea how much it costs? how many years it takes to train someone in microsurgery? we gave you back your life. you can still work. you can button your own shirt hold a fork.
you think you'd be in better shape without a thumb?
well so would we. but when you came in we didn't think about that we just took care of you made sure we did whatever you needed to get well.
(looking at her phone) damn it.
you're right you will. (to mart<ed>n) you still have a thumb because of us and like everyone else in this world we don't work for free. we earn this money. and if we have to take your house to get it we will.
(to a nurse) what's going on?
out of my way. now. out of my way.
(to house) what the hell is going on?
(to dr. thomas) you there. (to chase) you over there. i don't wanna hear a word out of either one of you until i get back.
you lied.
(looking appalled) well for one... notify the dea.
you really think you can lie your way out of this?
tell him i'm busy.
then tell him i quit.
you owe lucas the money. we were having sex when you called.
i... i thought they were the ones bluffing. no way they'd let us terminate.
why not?
what do you think of that pharm tech gail?
you knew she was stealing meds?
why didn't you ever tell me?
gail i like you. i always have. and i know you must've gotten sucked up into a situation you weren't able to control.
i'm not gonna back down just because you threaten to smear me. now if you agree to tell the truth there are things i can do to help. think about your husband your kids. i know you're a good person deep down inside. you can't completely hide everything about yourself in seven years.
(holding up the flower) hey... can you tell stan to give this to the dea agent when he comes by.
lucas gave it to me. i thought it might come in handy one day.
(she gives the flower to regina) least i came out on top once today.
to hand the board my resignation. hopefully whoever they hire to replace me can still get the 8%.
marina! i've been trying to get in touch with you all day. all right i understand. just how is rachel? and the rash? great. i'll be home early (she runs for the open elevator door) <U+0096> oh! (the door closes before she gets there) aw! perfect. (she pushes the elevator button again)
i told you i would.
(taking the envelope and yelling out in imitation of the orgasm she did not have with lucas that morning) yeeeeesss! whooo! yes!
well clearly it's not working. you have to stop the vaccine.
it's better than speeding up the schedule. how quickly did this come on?
of the stimulating agent which added to the first injection switched her immune reaction into overdrive.
what are you onto?
get maintenance to take that down.
you're pacing my office 'cause you're buying furniture?
for amber's old place?
i know you bought the place i wanted. you're a jerk. let's move on. hire a decorator.
backpack through europe. (she starts writing something on a notepad) i know it's hard to believe but you know what says even more about who you are than your furniture? the fact that you are letting house tell you how to buy furniture. (tearing off the note she wrote and handing it to wilson) call beatrice.
what was her condition?
is that the father? [approaches donald] mr. lozinski. i'm dr. lisa cuddy dean of medicine. how long were you out of the room?
[to smits] was there a proximity alarm?
the bracelet on your baby's ankle has a microchip that would set off alarms if she was carried through an exit. [to the staff] call the police. shut down all the exits. we are on lockdown. nobody moves until we find that baby.
you have to stay in bed. you pulled a stitch. lay back down. [quietly to donald] i got it. [to sarah] why don't i give you something to help you relax?
the police are searching room by room.
we're gonna find her.
no i'm just asking questions.
i need to know this stuff. anything out of the ordinary.
i don't mean to sound cold but he's your stepson. we can't ignore any possibility.
it's understandable that you wouldn't be happy right now. your world is changing. you scared? [he nods.] and how do you feel about your sister?
walker this is important. did you do anything to the baby? did you move her somewhere? hide her?
nobody'd be mad at you.
no news. how you holding up? [sarah shrugs.] you let them sedate you?
[sits on the edge of sarah's bed] a little girl. i adopted her last year.
let me get you some tissues. [she goes into the bathroom and picks up the tissues. then she looks around.] did you request some extra towels?
there are eight towels in sarah's room.
there should only be four.
i need you to track down their logs figure out who was up there and when.
just find the logs. now. [she picks up the phone as smits walks past maldonado who is just standing there. maldonado looks spacey.] adrienne you okay?
[hangs up and comes over] adrienne give me your arm. [she picks up both of moldonado arms <U+0097> she looks like a zombie. cuddy inspects them.] the hair on her left arm is standing up. asymmetric neurological function. she's having a pilomotor seizure.
she was. [she leads maldonado to a chair sits her down and checks her eyes.] she's probably been having complex seizures all day. she would be basically functional but more or less acting on autopilot. she probably dropped the towels off twice. she could have taken the baby.
[checks the laundry cart] where's the other cart? isn't there usually another cart in here?
hey. okay. [picks up the baby] okay. [she looks at smits and smiles.] hi. oh.
about the mrsa? i know we're<U+0097>
something you think is more important than the potentially lethal bacteria spreading like wildfire through my hospital? well that narrows it down to something personal and stupid.
theory confirmed. he is dating his first wife. i know.
that he didn't ask your permission first?
well you'd be surprised how many things wilson doesn't tell you.
i'm gonna kill him.
forget it.
yes i do.
you know what happens when you interfere in other people's relationships?
that is why i'm staying out of this. you force him to choose you might not like the answer.
hey.
i hear house met sam.
great.
(taking an apple from a bowl) what?
sorry preoccupied.
(paying for her lunch and walking away) nope. he didn't.
you never know what can happen. you might as well give it a chance.
do you read any of your departmental memos?
but the policy lapsed due to non-payment. i already made three calls about this. (she extends her arms) you should have been aware of that.
i have a bad feeling about this.
so you're paying it forward?
(talking on the phone) i don't need a temporary. i need a permanent. yesterday. please do.
hardly. one of my p.a.s quit an hour ago and i have to reshuffle next month's schedule.
how drunk were you?
are you okay? you shouldn't be drinking at all much less<U+0097>
i need you in the clinic.
i hired a replacement. for my p.a. she seems great.
you too. your patient's going home tomorrow.
(she walks into the room) you want to grab a bite to eat?
no. this is just me.
working late. (she smiles uncomfortably) i'm buying.
okay.
i just want us to be friends.
house. good. i have a case for you.
amnesia. she was found jogging in the street disoriented. she almost got hit by a truck. [she pulls open the curtain around ms. x's bed.] the mri showed no abnormalities. no i.d. on her. just her jogging clothes and her heart rate monitor. we know absolutely nothing about her.
she's a barracuda attorney house. these are the kind of patients we like to keep happy.
yeah but when she gets that memory back which we are trying to make happen she'll be able to spell lawsuit. i'm just touching base.
me too. couldn't you have waited? it's way too early for him to be on his own back in the old apartment. what makes you think he can handle it?
[voice over] you have to let him back into your condo.
you know what house is like. he's self-destructive.
[back on camera] without constant supervision he's gonna slide back into drugs. if you're not watching him i've got to.
why?
now you're being overprotective. house doesn't need to be wrapped in cotton wool. but you know that or you wouldn't have asked him to move out.
so it's not what you did but how you did it.
why don't you talk to him about moving back in? just touch base.
a crane collapsed in downtown trenton.
(recognizing the author ernest t. cuddy) my great-grandfather.
seriously you're giving this to us?
how did you know?
(quickly putting up her hair and ignoring the question) we have to get to trenton.
sir we have to get you to the o.r. you have a bad wound but we're gonna pack it and transport you as fast as we can.
his wounds aren't so<U+0097>
maybe his shoes were too tight.
(to the emergency worker) he's expectant. leave him.
they said he was barely hurt <U+0097> he can wait.
(coming over to talk to him) house. no! i need you here.
there were over 100 people in that building. only 76 have been accounted for. foreman and your team can handle the crane operator for now.
(continuing to roll and wrap the bandage) can we talk about this later?
there's no problems. we're doing just great.
(to the other woman) thank you.
(motioning to another doctor) can you help? (she pulls house aside and takes off her gloves) when i opened it i didn't think it was a housewarming gift. i thought it was an engagement present. (house looks stunned) it just happened last night.
i didn't know what to say. and i've been slightly distracted.
(putting her hands on his arms and speaking to him as if her were a child) house...it's in my office drawer because i knew i was coming here. it's not weird. there's no mystery. i'm just getting married.
(to hanna) please listen to me. you've been down here almost two hours. by the time they clear away the rubble<U+0097>
we leave the leg pinned we're risking crush syndrome.
your leg isn't getting enough circulation. the longer it's pinned the more the muscle dies.
dying muscles release poisons. we free your leg the poisons rush back into your system. it could stop your heart.
captain he's a jerk. but it's what the patient wants. can we please just give it a couple more hours?
i gotta get up to triage.
hanna's freaking out. she's having a panic attack. she can't breathe. she's gonna rip out all her ivs.
she wants you.
they won't let o2 down there. fear of explosion. you have to go back. she needs you house. (he turns off the bike engine and grabs his cane)
(bandaging his shoulder) you're lucky this isn't worse.
then we have to amputate.
it's been four hours already. it used to be a long shot. now it's...crazy.
we're already treating with sodium bicarbonate.
you wanna dose the insulin here in a non-hospital setting? that is insane! it's not worth it.
(to the captain) give us a minute?
i know you're angry but please don't put her life at risk just to get back at me.
you took her side against me right after you heard about my engagement.
i don't love you. so just... accept it and move on with your life instead of making everyone miserable.
screw you. i'm sick of making excuses for you. i'm sick of other people having to tiptoe around you and make their own lives worse while they try to keep you from collapsing. i'm done. (she walks away from him)
(turning around and coming back toward him) what are you clinging to house? you're gonna risk her life just to save her leg? really worked out well for you didn't it? what do you have in your life honestly? tell me. i'm moving on. wilson is moving on. and you... you've got nothing house nothing. i'm going down there and i'm gonna convince her to let me cut her leg off. if you have any decency left you'll stay out of it.
if there was any other way...
no. it's your choice if you want to go back on drugs.
you need to re-bandage your shoulder.
no.
no.
lucas...
i ended it.
i'm stuck house. (sighing deeply) i keep wanting to move forward. i keep wanting to move on and i can't. i mean my new house with my new fianc<e9> and all i can think about is you. (exhaling) i just need to know if you and i can work.
i don't know.
i know. i love you. (pause) i wish i didn't. but i can't help it.
did you take the vicodin?
(smiling sweetly) then i think we're okay.
