just the heart or the patient have any other complaints?
where are we going?
me? why?
[entering] hi.
i'm dr. cameron. how're you feeling?
okay. what're you doing here?
any family history of anemia?
brothers and sisters?
probably. [she looks at the lung x-ray and then looks concerned.]
twice.
all she has is a cough.
cindy kramer. i told her you'd see her.
have you even looked at the x-ray?
a spot on a x-ray doesn't necessarily mean that she's terminal.
it could be pneumonia. it could be sarcodosis.
could we at least brainstorm for other ideas? [he takes the x-ray and puts it up on the light board.] thank you. [he begins to write on the board.] i still think it could be pneumonia and sarcodosis but we should check for tuberculosis and definitely rule out congestive heart failure. [she looks to see that house has written denial anger bargaining depression acceptance on the board.] the five stages of dying.
[following him in] the death row guy? that's who you're working on instead of cindy?
i took an oath to do no harm.
we cure your patient he goes back to death row. he goes back to death row they kill him!
thanks for getting my back. i thought you seminary boys were against the death penalty.
over their stance on capital punishment?
department of justice statistics show that it's a racially motivated form of punishment. black defendants are ten times more likely to get a death sentence than whites.
what you have some house theory explaining heroin use despite a negative test?
it's the cause.
we're just talking semantics here. we should put him on a bi-carb drip and send him back.
paraldehyde inh lactic acid <U+0096>
inh?
inh poisoning would explain all the symptoms.
diagnostics is more of an art than a science.
i work for one of the top diagnosticians in the country. we're pouring all of our energy into figuring this out.
house <U+0096> [she stops short as she sees house laughing and pouring shots.] i was just waiting for test results i was
unbelievable.
yeah i have.
i'm not telling cindy she's dying until the diagnosis is confirmed.
i need a segmental bronchoalveolar lavage.
they're not definitive.
biopsy would be invasive and unnecessary.
a lavage could prove it's not cancer.
why? because it's me? i'm over you. i've jumped on the bandwagon. i hate you okay?
what is it? you won't help cindy but you're obsessed with this piece of dirt! are you just trying to prove that who someone is doesn't matter that all that matters is your stupid puzzle? fine. treat them the same. that's all i'm asking. one test.
there's no sign of infection.
yeah i know. she's terminal.
well i i hadn't exactly gotten around to that but i was just <U+0096>
cindy's divorced. she doesn't have any kids no siblings both her parents are gone <U+0096>
you don't think it's worth it.
my husband w <U+0096> [she stops looks at cindy and turns back.] i met him just after he was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer. if i hadn't married him he was alone. when a good person dies there should be an impact on the world. somebody should notice. somebody should be upset. [she goes back in.]
five major surgeries a bone marrow transplant 14 rounds of chemo and blast radiation.
no. the patient's last round of chemo was two months ago. we would have seen it by now.
toxic exposure doesn't make chronological sense.
what'd i do?
black walnut and ginger.
it doesn't matter if her sat percentage is off that means her blood isn't getting enough oxygen. that's a problem with her lungs not her heart
maybe pe or pulmonary fibrosis.
whoa; you're letting me touch the markers?
you think she's been molested.
okay.
we just need to be sure.
thank you. alright that's it you're fine.
normal.
wait. there. there's an extra flap.
it's benign? that's impossible.
she's not healthy. she's never been healthy.
she's brave.
who?
his ptt is prolonged the fibrin split products are off he's not clotting properly. it looks like a mild case of dic.
the surgery went well but all we did was fix the problem created by the medicine we gave you.
there's five of us working on the case. [she smiles hesitantly] the others are older.
you don't sound too good.
his fingers are even darker his temperature is 102 and spiking and the x-ray now shows lung infiltrates.
why what?
if it's just garden-variety bacterial pneumonia he's gonna be fine.
except a few cockroaches.
nice. [she looks up] someone should fix alfredo's roof. so why haven't you fired house?
i mean it's just you guys are always screaming at each other and i figure you hate him<U+0097>
why not?
he's a great doctor but any other hospital administrator would have fired him years ago.
you both went to michigan. did you know him while you were there.
so you just knew him as a legend?
ugh.
worse.
rats.
rat bites.
rat bite fever.
the treatment for aspergillus is amphotericin. that's hugely dangerous.
they don't look lighter to me alfredo. how's the tingling?
i think we'll give you a little rest from the meds here.
i'm just making a little adjustment. excuse me.
he's not making any urine. i think we just destroyed the kid's kidney with the amphotericin. i think he's dying.
his kidneys are shutting down due to direct toxicity to the proximal tubular epithelium.
he had an std last year. that explains the titer. he has low sodium maybe it's legionella.
and dialysis.
if you're wrong he'll end up with no hands and no feet.
i wrote your people a check last month.
he's an immunologist and a tb expert.
it smells okay to me. [sebastian laughs.]
he's not an idiot.
i'm sorry but it's against hospital regs. [she holds out her hand.]
there's a phone in your room.
right i just thought it's not like the hospitals that you might used to in africa. [sebastian gets in the elevator; cameron stops the door from closing on her.] i don't know what the facilities were like
you're welcome.
[smiling very broadly] i should go.
yeah what a jerk saving all those lives like that.
you just sent us off to test him for <U+0096>
he's right! tuberculosis could present in hundreds of different ways!
it's not metabolic. kidney liver and thyroid are all normal. no diabetes.
it would account for the episode. i'll put him on telemetry; do a stress test and an echocardiogram.
what are you going to do walk out? corporate sponsors aren't going to like that. i need your forearm. [she prepares his arm for a shot.]
sick sinus syndrome.
if it changes colour in the next 48 hours <U+0096>
just covering all his bases i guess.
we have you scheduled for a 10:30 echo.
you'll be able to maintain your pacemaker from anywhere; you just need to get yourself to a phone line every few months.
i'm kind of spoiled.
i meant medically. no pet scans no mris
dr. charles wait <U+0096>
basement.
so far just carnival rides have set you off.
are you asking me to africa or on a date?
well one's a job and thee other's
you don't think objectivity's important?
here sit on the step. [she takes his pulse.]
your heart rate's normal.
call a code! second floor stairwell! [but who was she yelling to?]
you were wrong.
it's not sick sinus syndrome.
we were taking the stairs; they keep them in the stairwell.
why would you say he's selfish?
he asked me out.
he also asked me to come to africa.
i think the two questions had two different objectives.
good looking single guy genius doctor cares about the world
you think i'm that hung-up on rules and <U+0096>
yeah there is.
it was positive he's got tb!
i did a test it was positive why is that a problem?
well maybe he's not the only stubborn jerk. [house does an exaggerated what me? kind of gesture.] i did an lp2: low glucose and he has an increased sed rate. everything screams tuberculosis!
if any of the symptoms are caused by the tb it would throw off our diagnosis.
who knows maybe he'll just get better.
you have a resistant strain of tb.
that's what we doctors do. we write down the name of some medicine and someone gives it to us.
i'm sorry.
because she couldn't get them you're not going to take them? that's insane!
because letting her die was wrong but letting you die is just as wrong.
he figures the pharmaceuticals need something big to force them into action. this'll get a lot more media play than a thousand african villagers dying. [the phone rings. chase checks the caller id <U+0096> it's newsweek!]
he has his diagnosis.
maybe millions of lives get saved <U+0096>
t <U+0096>
we know that it's not a brain tumour.
how're you feeling?
you're having a good day. the symptoms will quickly focus more and more on your lungs you'll find it difficult to talk and eventually breathe at all.
i know. i just came to ask if you'd be willing to accept any treatment.
no. palliative treatment narcotics <U+0097> fentanyl patch morphine drip <U+0097> whatever it takes. we can make your last days fairly comfortable. and if you have another good day maybe dinner.
what are you doing?
you think he's a hypocrite?
it's a hundred degrees in here house because you turned up the thermostat.
clear. [she shocks him. cuddy shakes her head.] come on sebastian. clear! [another shock.]
you've rerun the test?
what else could cause low csf sugar?
they'd have to be very high.
how could he get high insulin levels? we've checked daily blood sugars all normal!
and it's not glucagonoma because he has no rash. it's not self-induced because he's not an idiot and it's not a tumour because the ct and the mri were both negative.
why do you do this? why do you ignore what i say like i'm not even <U+0096>
except if it's so small we can't see it how're we even going to prove it's there?
we just start hacking away at his pancreas until he gets better?
he's stuck in the superior mesenteric.
glucose is holding steady at 75.
50. it's starting to drop. 45.
he's seizing.
he's at 40 38 35[monitor gets to 30 before -- ]
we're back to 40.
is that any of your business?
i don't think so.
he practically lives in africa there's no future.
right. it's that simple.
i put a label on them and go from there.
he is a great doctor.
six month supply. should fix you right up. see you when you come back for a refill?
you're going to give them away?
i don't think so.
shocks could be l'hermitte's sign early symptom of ms.
what's with the jacket?
why would you need five thousand dollars?
lots of ideas too many ideas that's why so many tests. have you used any recreational drugs?
did a more detailed history went back three generations.
his mom died in a car accident his mom's mom had arthritis and his mom's mom's dad served in an all black tank battalion in gapettion.
ms doesn't explain the low white count.
it was graduation weekend. he barely drank in the weeks before that and he didn't drink at all during his wrestling season.
i did a tox screen!
what do you do with your cane?
and he broke every bone in his body.
it was 15 years ago the kid wasn't even in the car
genetic component seems unlikely
dna analysis will show whether your son has the specific chromosome mutation which causes the disease
no odd-looking freckles? nodules in the iris?
we think it may have been what caused her car accident
[sniffs] i don't smell...
it's ok we'll take care of it
but you didn't feel any of this?
he was just protecting him
it's what parents do.
excuse me?
the haemacel was negative for blood and i wouldn't say he actually exploded. more like... gushed?
who was that?
she never calls you is everything okay?
you lied to avoid seeing your own mom.
if there's infection there'd be a fever
you really think that was his mom on the phone?
you're not the least bit curious what his parents are like?
you guys can handle the tests right?
is there something important that you and house need to discuss over dinner?
house's parents... they have a layover in newark thursday evening.
no. thought maybe you could just invite a few more people.
making dinner plans. what's up?
they seem to actually care
tox screen was negative for thc
[looking very innocent] no one. [house doesn't look convinced]
he has the chills and his temperature's spiking. it's nearly 106
we knew if it was myelitis there had to be an itis. this must be the infection that set it off.
maybe the tests were wrong
and we need to find an answer before this infection kills him.
you guys going to join us for dinner thursday?
you're not curious?
okay.
we'd like to talk to some of your friends see if they have any similar symptoms
we understand but they didn't have all the information that we have now.
would you mind if i spoke with carnell alone for a minute?
no. it's just confidential.
i'm sorry i have to insist.
i'm sorry we need those names.
don't know you haven't had any unexplained pain or strange feelings since you got back?
can i see it?
your feet. there's a common parasite in jamaica that can resemble foot fungus.
i'm going to need to take a look at that.
unless you want to come down to the hospital with me.
then drop your pants.
i'm a doctor he has a rash and a friend of his is--
except for one guy with a rash no one else on the trip has any health issues.
i don't know. i took some scrapings it doesn't appear to be ringworm.
basically like diaper rash. he's been working around the clock said he hasn't changed his clothes in three days.
he won't come. just started a new job after graduation they're working on some big merger.
that's what i told him the first time. still wound up driving into manhattan.
where's stacy?
can i ask an opinion on a patient? house wants me to lie to the kid to get him in here.
well we do need to diagnosis his friend.
there is no test house just wants to look at it.
yeah like that's going to happen.
so it's ok to lie to house but not to a patient.
[rushing in] what's going on?
on it! [picks up the phone by the bedside]
he said he can't leave work.
i'm not going to lie.
hmm tough choice.
your parents called. [house looks a little stunned] they had to catch an earli--
he got off work?
i already told you that.
in the bureau back in his regular room?
we don't know that. none of the mris showed anything.
i just wanted to let you know that carnell's prepped for surgery.
hi i'm allison cameron. i work with your son.
really?
you don't have a lot of time with your son. maybe another time. [cameron leaves]
the father and the friend are responding well to treatment. things aren't looking so good for carnell.
it was none of my business.
why does he hate seeing his parents? so his dad tells the truth he can't handle that?
he's a doctor world famous! how disappointed can they be?
guy's sleeping in a hyperbaric chamber. over-oxygenation can cause cell damage and if the cells in the lungs are damaged--
there's this kid in oncology she's got a picture of jeff above her bed.
at least he hit his own home runs. he didn't physically alter himself.
we don't make careers out of who can stay awake the longest!
he's making millions of dollars ripping off fans
yeah stupid stupid kids
maybe it is.
which means it would have nothing to do with the stunts he's been pulling
it could be als
some type of muscular dystrophy?
session?
i took the muscle specimen from jeff's thigh. figured that's where we'd have the best chance of finding something.
caffeine's legal.
it's a bike race. a completely arbitrary set of rules that everyone complies with for no other reason than that some committee says that they should.
but that's the point. that's what the game is.
house doesn't pretend to be some golden boy he does it to help people not to glorify himself.
umm ethics.
muscle biopsy is negative for polymyositis.
maybe his bike shorts are just on too tight.
house has a handicap; all he's aiming for is normality.
jeff doesn't want normal he wants superpowers.
that's kind of a long shot.
do you like being a hero?
you don't feel a sense of responsibility? there's kids out there that worship you.
so you decided to take advantage of that?
can't be we fixed that!
the white count is still the same but the red count's fallen to 29 percent.
wonder why they're calling me.
he's cheating. shouldn't get away with it.
you worried about the precedent?
you going to turn me in?
kids love him and he's not who they think he is. it's not right.
are we still talking about the patient?
is that how you justified lying to your wives?
unless it's drug-induced. he's lying about not being on epo?
what does it matter?
i'm not the leak.
it's not possible. the drugs should be flushing out of his system.
but epo use explains every one of his symptoms. he's been lying and cheating and now it's coming back to bite him.
his chest was clear.
you're still not explaining the prca.
after this we'll scan some totally random body parts.
no. we'll find something.
there's no way it would have kept him from racing. with that kind of anaemia he would have needed constant...
he needs blood transfusions every two weeks which means he can dope all he wants. he's got a doctor's pass. it's medicinal. he got away with it.
i fell in love with my husband's best friend. near the end i was at the hospital every day and joe would come by after work. we'd go for walks and try to talk each other through it. we kind of clung on to each other.
no. just your actions.
i couldn't have lived with myself.
the results make sense. kalvin's t-cells are at 200.that's strong enough to fight infection.
two months ago he was down to 30 t-cells then he changed his meds his immune system rebounds his viral load drops everything's getting better but he's getting sicker.
an auto-immune disease? with hiv that's impossible.
[hand under the blanket.] your lymph nodes aren't swollen. that's good.
i love my job.
i'm not sure there's a difference. your mom died of diabetes. how's your dad's health?
i have fun.
he's cute.
yes and possibly more than cigarettes. his tox screen came back positive for recreational drugs.
your tox screen came back positive for--
recreational drugs are dangerous to begin with but for someone with hiv...
does the sex include condoms?
you could get hepatitis or another strain of hiv.
aids isn't a death sentence anymore.
how long have you been coughing?
[pours him some water.] try to take a deep breath.
what is it?
wegener's would have responded to the steroids.
i'm fine.
i think we should reconsider drugs. kalvin uses crystal meth.
it could be if his drugs were tainted. they cook meth with battery acid lye lantern fuel...
[closes a drawer next to his bed.] no drugs in here. i'll take the bathroom.
i might have hiv a drink's not going to wash it away.
big difference between 'like zero' and 'zero'.
he was very reassuring kept reminding me that the hospital covers all my medical costs. apparently forgot to mention that if i do test positive that they'll pass it on to legal and legal will dig up any dirt they can trying to prove that i'm a drug user or tramp and that's why i have hiv.
right.
some of the bulbs have date stamps.
it's best not to talk. you're going to feel a sharp pinch. this actually is going to grab a piece of your lung.
your drugs. thought maybe you'd used toxic meth. we'll know if you're exposed to beryllium in a few hours.
you brought drugs into the hospital?! glad i wasted my time at your hotel.
that was an accident.
this wasn't your fault.
neck veins are out; must be pericardial effusion. [checks with her stethoscope] no wheezing.
kalvin you're bleeding into the area around your heart.
the blood's crushing your heart once we remove it you'll be fine.
you're not going to die.
where's the blood? it's clear.
they may not be cancerous.
it could be sarcoidosis.
lymphoma's a death sentence sarcoidosis is treatable.
i wanna do the kveim-siltzbach test.
uh
he's not coming.
he asked!
what did you say when you thought you were dying?
everybody has regrets.
if the growths in your lungs and heart are sarcoid your body will recognize this material and we'll see a reaction on your arm. [injects something; probably prednisone.] did you really want to see your dad?
i'm fine.
the lab disposes of them after analysis.
not really my thing.
come on in.
uh huh. [she strips off chase's jacket he doesn't really fight her.]
not all of it. [they start stripping each other.]
come on chase; don't turn into a good guy on me now.
why do you have a rat?
kalvin lied!
[pacing and talking very fast.] mom's kidneys were failing she needed a transplant they tested kalvin he was a match. he was also positive for hiv mom never found a qualified donor she dies.
so you always use a condom?
[to house.] you?
where's wilson?
why are you so calm?
do you think i want it to?
you lied to me.
this is about your lonely miserable life.
you haven't had a single visitor except for your dad. drugs are great hiv freed you your dad hates you you're so happy. everything's a lie! you blame yourself for your mom's death. you're not trying to have fun you're trying to self-destruct. you wanna kill yourself? fine but stop recruiting!
young woman joint pain. gonorrhea is a possibility.
it's typically small joints this hit her knee.
might not just be her arteries could be all her blood vessels.
he forgot to ask her a question does there need to be a reason?
as far as i'm concerned he made a little mistake. it happens.
you think i'm biased?
[clears her throat.] who says?
we're not involved; and i don't know why he messed up. house has worked with him longer than i have. you should talk to house.
the kidney damage isn't so bad. the liver damage is more worrisome. there's no dialysis for livers.
surgeons won't operate unless the donor's had a long time to weigh the decision.
those organs--
it's a little cold. appendicitis?
nurse! call the or; we've got to prep her for an embolectomy.
just one? probably a contaminant.
worst case we could re-list her.
he just donated his liver.
this is not what she wants!
she's dying either way.
what's happening to chase?
since when does house hang out at otb?
you were just standing there and she started to seize?
it could be sle familial telangiectasia or even cushing's.
which one?
i'm observing.
he's kidding. he's an excellent doctor.
trying rounding your back a bit more.
you might want to move down one vertebra.
try taking a deep breath. dr. house maybe i should take it from here.
you trying to piss off foreman huh?
bp's 240 over 140.
take the needle out. take the needle out!
it's awfully rare.
cuddy tapped foreman to run the department. i didn't even get asked.
you were suspended.
it's the irony of women in charge; they don't like other women in charge. [chase scoffs.] what you think it's something else?
yeah they're really worried that i'm going to create a hostile work environment.
scans showed a mass on her pancreas.
dr. foreman's overseeing your case. he thought it'd be best if i spoke with you. we found a mass in your pancreas. it looks like cancer.
probably but the bigger point is a one-year survival rate for pancreatic cancer is less than 20%.
we need to biopsy the mass to see what we're dealing with. then we can recommend options from there.
i need your consent to do the biopsy. [anica signs.] thanks.
good luck.
it was weird. she barely reacted at all.
this was more like she didn't even hear me.
there is another possibility.
she didn't even read the consent form for the pancreatic biopsy.
maybe she didn't read it because she knew there was nothing wrong with her. there is another explanation for the cushing's; maybe she injected herself with the acth. her behavior suggests munchausen's. she's had four hospitalizations in the last four months.
she's had zero symptoms since she got here. the scarring on her pancreas could be caused by injecting herself with a benzene and setting off the seizures.
you can fake an invisible one. we should check her apartment. look for medications syringes <U+0096>
why do you think cuddy picked foreman over me? have i done something wrong or if there's something i needed to improve on
how would you describe my leadership skills?
there's more to being a leader than being a jerk!
no no way. it just snowed.
my car is right there.
there's even books in the bathroom.
she's got an appointment with her ophthalmologist on tuesday and an appointment with her gynecologist on thursday. multiple appointments with multiple doctors symptom of munchausen's.
because you're looking for her to have a tumor.
an ophthalmologist is a doctor. attention is attention.
it's not your call.
look at the pathology reports from the surgery she had in chicago. they removed 30% of her pituitary they found no tumor!
this is a consent form to stick a wire into your brain. it's important for hospitals to get these signed for procedures that are completely unnecessary.
because you're mentally ill. you injected yourself with acth to induce cushing's to get attention from doctors and so far it's worked.
i'm not giving you what you want?
just sign the forms okay and i'll get out of here. hopefully for you whatever you injected yourself with won't wear off before you get the fun of a caring and concerned doctor cutting into your head. [anica grabs the pen and scribbles her name. cameron leaves. anica eyes the bottle left on the tray.]
yeah. mentally ill patient is right on track for a pointless procedure.
why her urine turning orange?
because that's what rifampin does.
but if a munchausen's patient thinks she's about to get busted she sees pills labeled dangerous: might cause seizures she might grab a couple. and if that label were accidentally on a bottle of antibiotics and if that bottle was accidentally left in her room <U+0096>
might have. it's munchausen's. all this she did to herself.
not from this department. the half-life of rifampin is three hours after that you'll get your psych referral and your discharge papers.
i guess when cooperation fails you move on to hostility.
there's a million things she could have taken to have done that.
blood tests alone can't confirm aplastic anemia.
we can't. her white count's down.
all her other labs show nothing that <U+0096>
no her white count would be through the roof hers is on the floor.
name one that fits her case.
it's called agraphia loss of ability to write. most often it's temporary.
his symptoms can all be explained by the head trauma; causes a contusion or a seizure that causes the aphasia. we should get an eeg.
which might you know save a life.
why?
i think it should be a discussion among peers! i think we're grown up enough to reach a consensus.
uh it's just a precaution. we think the trauma caused some swelling and we need to keep him stable until the body can repair the damage.
push 40 iv.
neither can a stroke.
drugs don't cause fever.
it could be an auto-immune disease. lupus beh<e7>et's... we could start him on a high dose of steroids. [phone in the office starts to ring.]
what if it's auto-immune?
so... you're in charge of us because you're in charge of him?
any vacations?
a scarring on the mri could mean anything; ms toxins any one of a hundred demyelinating diseases.
what does house say?
[softly.] have fun. [quickly walks off.]
was it something you ate?
no he's in pain. is it a sharp pain?
taste?
a... a metallic taste?
i'll be right back.
no.
how are you holding up? i know what you just heard is as scary as hell but...
he was trying to tell us something!
[looking very disheveled.] you were wrong it wasn't the fear. he opened up to me when i...
you knew that i'd--
he couldn't tackle the bear.
he also said they took my stain?
what did you mean by stain? dirty? soiled?
is there anything else you haven't told us?
maybe house is wrong.
he mentioned stain once before when chase was giving him the mri. before we scared him.
it's in your notes.
when his wife's not in the room. [foreman and chase suddenly realize what cameron says is true.] the more devoted the more reason to lie.
you disagree?
white. it's a polar bear; you built your house in the north pole.
except bipolar disorder does not cause seizures.
which explained nothing because it wasn't even in the right area.
house! shut up.
i'll get him started on intravenous quinidine.
price of the electronic age.
she's a people pleaser. she doesn't like to let people down.
birth control pills? [they all exchange bewildered looks.]
because of the burn we can't perform any of our normal tests to see what's wrong so we're going to try a galvanometer.
it picks up a pulse in the wrists and the ankles. hopefully it'll tell us whether his heart rhythm is abnormal.
we're trying to figure out if the two were somehow connected. had he been sick lately?
anything unusual with his behavior had he been tired a lot?
if he was experimenting with amphetamines or cocaine..?
we'll know more after the test.
he wasn't electrocuted.
what are you looking for?
not with the tachycardia. it could be a virus in his brain.
there's no other way to look at a brain.
don't worry he's still under but the brain never completely sleeps it's always working; controlling your heart rate breathing temperature.
the eyes respond to visual stimuli blood flow increases in certain areas in the brain and we can track that with the sonogram. with ms blood vessels are more reactive so flow is faster. if adam has an infection they'd be swelling which would constrict the arteries and the flow would be slower.
[enters with scrubs on.] lecture's over let's go. house wants to-- [she peers into the hyperbaric chamber and can see adam's eyelids flicking open and close.] adam's waking up.
he's in pain.
adam had an orgasm.
what's wrong?
are you ok?
is he going to be ok?
could pain medication cause an orgasm?
most people don't orgasm from a needle prick.
crab's disease metachromatic leukodystrophy.
could be an infection.
you listed some brain infections but what if it's just a regular old infection festering in the burned skin?
he's on 20 different medications to manage his pain and his heart how often he urinates. his brain is like a waiter that's got too many--
[sighs.] the brain is stressed. an infection's elsewhere could put it over the edge.
maggots are implanted directly into adam's burns.
maggots eat dead flesh only dead flesh so they're perfectly suited to clean wounds. they also kill the bacteria that thrive in injured tissues.
did you sleep here?
[whispers.] do you want a pillow?
the maggots did great for the burn [sighs.] but the brainwaves are still all over the map.
is he ok?
where are you going?
house you ok? we've been waiting for you.
[she puts her stuff down hurriedly.] hallucinations with migraines are pretty uncommon. [she checks his pupils.] what did you see?
sensory deception makes no sense.
you took something. the kid's fighting for his life!
he was hallucinating in the locker room.
he's feeling no pain he is high.
past that. he's seeing sounds. took something.
its night time.
he told you that when you woke him up?
seizure.
serotonin affects mood appetite it doesn't cause a brain to shut down.
unless he doesn't have serotonin storm he could just as easily have too much dopamine as serotonin but if it's dopamine the cyproheptadine will kill him.
you can't.
anesthesiologist told the parents what you did.
then we're back to where we started. seizure disorders.
where are you going?
since when do you voluntarily go see patients?
she's fifteen.
yeah yeah she's an old soul. this is creepy even for you.
did the history reveal anything oh i don't know medically relevant.
labs show valium and heroin in her urine.
a positive test means she tried it once. doesn't mean she's an addict. she's only fifteen.
or bulimia or her age. some girls don't start till their mid to late teens.
could we talk about her health instead of her breasts?
even if she is an addict a lot of her symptoms the cataplexy the violence they could be neurological. we chalk this up to drugs we could be releasing her with juvenile ms or parkinson's --
we can't be sure how long she was--
that's your proof? that she's good looking?
what do you think that means?
this is a waste of time let's just get the lp.
don't think so.
we have to call child protective services.
doesn't apply in abuse cases you know that. we're mandated to report sexual abuse.
so we're just gonna leave a child molester in the same room as his victim?
if you're too distracted to deal with this because your leg hurts.
no idea.
she's a child she needs to be protected.
i had to do what i thought was right.
am i in trouble? (is this the same person who was accusing him of being distracted not three scenes ago.)
so i'm not in trouble. (focus!)
what if it's not? we could waste weeks searching for a tumor that we don't even know is there.
just ptsd. yeah daddy's diddling her nothing to worry about.
you think she's faking?
just went in. she was in with the dad before.
that was quick. what's gonna happen?
the father had sex--
he admitted--
she--
you have to tell her the truth.
you don't have to be afraid of him. they can protect you.
you think things are fine they're not.
he's abusing you.
you're the child he's the adult. he had the responsibility--
you're sexually attracted to your father?
no we don't. after your father slept with you you were traumatized.
you're fifteen. you're smart. you don't have--
i did
what are you getting at?
uh not much.
you're thinking this is hormonal?
wilson already did an ultrasound said her ovaries were undersized.
what are we looking for? (the machine beeps.)
oh my god.
but those are.
umm... negative means he doesn't have it.
i thought we were wearing the wrong shoes for cancer.
could be psittacosis.
wouldn't mess with the reproductive system. [house walks over and cameron hands him the whiteboard marker] maybe things aren't so nicely connected. he's 65. we could be looking at multiple systems just starting to break down independently.
it was brucellosis but we got to it too late. vegetation broke off into his main coronary artery and caused an infarction.
uhh his brain is clear now and so is the genital and urinary tract and his kidney function is good.
i wrote a letter to the board of directors appealing the transplant committee's decision. i'm alleging bias against you clouded their medical judgement. i need you to sign.
you don't believe that. you told the committee--
then why are you--
you really think this thing will change their decision?
90-yr-old woman died of pneumonia.
umm... baby died in the icu.
err... 40-yr-old male.
heart attack.
no other deaths. there's one woman who was in a car accident.
don't think the procurement people have been notified.
it's in the er; they're still looking on her.
not 40.
young is good.
don't know.
she's still alive. even if we get on the list we can't go near her.
she's on the hefty side.
what odds? what is this?
but if her heart's no good then--
you're hacking into a confidential patient file?
it's a 'u'. n - e - u.
we're going to cure death?
[holding the mri scans] not solid enough.
not vascular enough.
what if it's not an infection? toxins can cause similar symptoms especially if whatever it is did liver damage.
before i show you these they were in a locked drawer in her desk the vice principal said that laura must have confiscated them they've had some problems--
then we have nothing to go on.
just some more infections.
[walks in from next door] she's positive for gonorrhea!
meds are started. her heart should be clear enough to use in about 4 or 5 hours. i'll go tell the families.
house she's still got a significant amount of gonorrhea in her system.
that was kind of you.
mr neuberger there's something i need to tell you.
[looks shocked] are you sure?
i assume somebody checked for food allergies?
it says the attack was proceeded by some sort of strenuous physical activity.
what were you doing? [bob looks uncomfortable and maria smirks.]
he's not a sex fiend; he's a happily married man.
what are you doing?
i didn't see any sign of trauma and they were remarkably open. i asked about stds and they admitted participating in a threesome a few months ago.
girl. his wife's college roommate.
his wife arranged it for an anniversary present. if you ask me if two people really trust each other a threesome once every seven years might actually help a marriage. [everyone stares at her.]
i'll take the bet.
no als would affect his facial muscles before his throat.
the patient.
i'm gonna close the shutter now. i need you to pant kinda like a dog. [bob does so.] that's good keep going. [to maria who is watching with cameron] can i ask you a personal question?
the threesome and the roleplaying is that because things get boring?
no. [to bob] you can go back to taking the deep breaths now.
maybe they are that person while they're dating but then they change.
plethysmograph revealed decreased lung capacity <U+0096>
cause could be idiopathic.
what i meant was that <U+0096>
stable.
okay stop scratching we've gotta look at it.
you've gotta stop scratching so we can look at it!
this can wait two minutes.
no wouldn't explain the lung scarring.
yeah and some homeopathic studies have also found that ground-up spiders can cure cancer. can i go now?
he and his wife worked a wedding in cabo san lucas. a lot of pottery in mexico is contaminated with lead-based paint.
can you stop stuffing your mouth with pancakes for one second?
is there a difference?
no evidence of lead mercury or arsenic.
the tests say it's not.
his diet hasn't changed since he was a kid. his favorite food is corn flakes.
and i just did yet another hair and blood test for lead and everything else he possibly could have been exposed to they're all negative. it's gotta be something else.
and the tests don't match heavy metals. [again all three are beeped and they rush off. house takes a vicodin and stares at the board.]
his lungs are clear.
she's waiting outside why?
what you mean her medical records?
you think she's poisoning him?
so either she's poisoning him or it's not heavy metals. we've done over ten heavy metal tox screens <U+0096>
i am not going to accuse a woman of trying to murder her own husband simply based on some paranoid theory.
we have not eliminated every other possibility!
he's only been on it for a few hours.
i am not going to <U+0096>
she's not poisoning him!
no it's the only explanation your twisted mind can come up with because you're angry that you can't find the answer and you're taking it out on her!
are you calling me childish?
still no pulse.
i got a pulse. pupils are reactive. you still with us?
bob can you hear me? [he nods.]
can you hear me?
auto-immunosuppressant aren't helping.
you're not still thinking <U+0096>
he didn't present with a fever either.
[on the other end] yeah she does. what does <U+0096>
you don't still think that she <U+0096>
why would you care if she <U+0096> hello?
actually they're not working there either.
well there um the water <U+0096>
she had to go to the bathroom.
what was i supposed to do? tie her up?
why would somebody do that? sit by somebody's beside day and night helping them comforting them and at the same time killing them?
we started chelation therapy with dimercaprol.
his kidney function hasn't improved.
he's gonna need a lung transplant.
you're pleased. you think you've proved every marriage is a mistake.
ignorance is bliss.
why did she have a clean room in her home?
or the girl snuck out and she's lying about that.
give the parents a break; they're just trying to keep her healthy. everything in here is labelled hypo-allergenic.
this place is cleaner than her hospital room. [she walks to where chase is next to the window]
it's a 20-foot drop.
sure a heart transplant girl swung down there on a vine. maybe she was hooking up with tarzan and cheetah by the elephant graveyard.
you had unsafe sex? the whole unsafe thing didn't tell you something?
practically a lifetime. [to chase] how about a semen allergy?
aim and shoot. [dan reluctantly walks off]
[sighs] we should tell her parents.
melinda's a minor.
oh so you're fine with them finding out as long as you don't have to tell them personally?
[sighs again and checks her watch] too bad it's not you giving the sample. we'd be done by now.
test was negative. no semen allergy.
he loves her. did everything he could to make sure she wouldn't get sick.
love is an emotion certain people experience similar to happiness. no maybe i should give a more relatable example.
i assume he washed and he...
the test on your house ruled out any environmental allergens.
we believe it's highly unlikely that this set of circumstances will repeat itself.
it's good news. she's healthy but you might want to talk--
getting the epi.
she's coughing up white sputum.
look at her neck.
it's not an allergy it's her heart.
what if her anaphylaxis wasn't anaphylaxis. toxicity from the anti-rejection meds could cause a seizure and then heart failure.
you think she had 2 unrelated rare conditions in one week?
there's no fever so it's probably not infection.
anything?
i just think those two are brats. girl undercuts her mother any chance she gets.
good point. explains why parents who don't pay attention get such nice well-adjusted children.
think its vegetation?
at this rate it'll be up to her lungs in a matter of days.
tick paralysis? could also explain the anaphylaxis maybe even the--
als? ms?
could be a virus. west nile even polio with her immune system shot.
glue inhalation. would explain why she hasn't admitted it.
this time of the year they're not spraying.
she's on a special diet because of her allergies.
why would she admit the sex and not the food?
you have a rat.
their immune systems don't work as well could be listeria.
so does asthma.
could both be diabetes. [she and foreman pick up the case files on the table]
this case is 12 years old.
on a 6-yr-old kid who probably has nothing worse than some food poisoning?
erdhem-chester is an abnormal growth of some of the cells that fight infection.
he shouldn't have. we're just testing it'll probably be negative.
we need to be sure.
it shouldn't take long.
forget it chase your punching the shark story is good but she's not waiting for you. [foreman laughs]
chase is. negative for erdheim-chester.
goodpasture's syndrome. circulating antibodies cause kidney failure and bleeding.
his hematocrit would have to be low it's at 44 and esther's never dropped below...
what about lymphoma? causes kidney failure gi bleed and can infiltrate the base of the brain.
i'll page cuddy.
she thinks the kid has a stomach ache.
we're looking for lymphoma but--
not exactly.
dr house had a patient a while back who exhibited the same symptoms as your son--
no.
we know the likely course the disease will take.
she had multiple system failures--
she... died 24 hours after her admission.
the base of his brain's been infiltrated by a small mass. we think--
looks that way.
no we saw a mass. the location's consistent with--
how can we start treatment if we have no idea what we're treating for?
interferon modulates the immune system. it could affect a cancer of the blood like one of the leukemias.
slows down all five hundred of them? [foreman concedes her point]
auto-immune diseases. his body's own defenses are attacking him and beefing them up is just going to put fuel on the fire.
no no enlarged hilar lymph nodes on his chest x-ray.
house had another patient.
labs will take 2 hours.
flip the mode let's see the flow.
damn. shut it down we're just wasting time.
that's not kawasaki's.
could be bacteria.
you're not worried about--
genetic disorders could cause masses everywhere. tuberous sclerosis.
or sarcoma. he could have multiple soft tissue tumors.
multiple neurofibromatosis.
you're going to have to find a way to let this go. we can't go near ian.
maybe two good pieces.
three would be pushing it.
genetic disorder - tuberous sclerosis.
a little more is more than a third.
[looks into the microscope] that's definitely not red.
genetic disorder's far more likely in a 6-yr-old. tuberous sclerosis.
nestin's negative.
kid dies.
chondrocytoma. connective tissue has been in all the places that we've been looking.
we would have seen signs of that when we tested for tuberous sclerosis.
no they didn't. they looked like fat.
so did esther.
yeah the tumor's got it in for you. diseases don't lie.
cells look like macrophages.
[slaps a medical journal down on the table] you stole my article.
i wrote up the case where we induced hypothermic cardiac arrest in the terminal cancer girl.
you knew i was writing one you gave me notes!
[snatches the file from house and begins reading through it]
i assume the er tried giving her some sedatives we should up the dosage.
thanks for your insight. for someone who hasn't slept in ten days sedation is a great start.
[interrupts him] the brain is being stressed we need to relieve that. [to house] you've had my article on your desk for the last four months!
you read his!
nothing that would cause sleep disturbances. when did you get his article?
optic-nerve disease.
i'll go run the tests.
i'm injecting a dye which will allow us to look at your retina and your optic nerve.
normal because of the dye. it's going to be that way the next few hours.
no.
i just don't see the need to make you feel better by forgiving you.
it's unprofessional to be talking about this in front of a patient. maybe that doesn't matter to you but...
[glances at hannah] she's asleep.
you mean she's... better?
if you hadn't---
but probably even with the few minutes of sleep she does have its torture.
your brain doesn't remember it was just a few seconds.
hannah? [pauses lightly shakes her] hannah? hannah.
we're sorry.
[moves him away from the patient then speaks in a lower voice] you don't have to be cruel.
that's how you define nice? not stealing?
we've got rectal bleeding.
[sarcastically] yeah he's got all the ideas.
keep breathing nice and steady. [pauses] how am i supposed to work with him?
you think i'm overreacting?
is that what you told him - i'm hysterical and i need to relax my anus?
pathology from the rectal bleed showed traces of nasal epithelium.
that much blood is not a 'just a' anything.
the question isn't what it's why.
do you have a specific type of neurogenic toxin in mind or should we just start running a thousand different tox-screens?
or it could be us do you have any idea what it feels like to have a six-foot long hose shoved into your large intestine?
[sighs] we've basically been torturing this girl for the last eight hours.
extreme stress can cause high blood pressure which can cause bleeding.
is this just one of your experiments? you just wanted to see how i'd react to being screwed over by foreman?
right. we're both victims. a simple heads up that's all i needed. you know between your incredibly witty remarks about anal sex and cuddy's breasts you could have tipped me off.
[sighs starts to walk away]
that is not the definition of being human. that's the definition of being an ass.
but chase says her eyes are moving the exact way.
i don't think she'd forget being bitten by a crazed animal.
for less than a week. she had an allergic reaction so they had to give it away.
animal allergies seems unlikely but its possible that---
about a month ago. her girlfriend gave it to her for her birthday.
you... spoke to the dog?
okay. well we could either base the diagnosis on your admittedly keen understanding of lesbian relationships or we could do a scratch test.
you still feeling a lot of blood in your throat?
good. maybe things are just starting to improve on their own. just a few more. you want some water to wash out your mouth?
you and max have got a very nice relationship.
she's very supportive.
when max got you the dog did you lie about having an allergic reaction?
if you have pre-existing conditions it's important we know. but if you don't it's just as important. if i'm wasting my time doing---
it's none of my business.
i guess it happens sometimes.
hannah can you turn over?
i'm not sure.
she has massive internal bleeding.
she'd have to take a hell of a lot.
[sighs] you... were right about her wanting to break up.
drugs or alcohol can mess with the sleeping and compromise the liver.
you can't ask the person she's about to dump to donate half her liver!
does max know hannah plans to leave her?
if she knew there's no way she'd go through with this.
we have an ethical dilemma.
we're withholding information relevant to her decision to risk her life. how is that not an ethical dilemma?
who cares?
this is immoral.
she's doing this out of love and max doesn't know---
we have to.
she's getting surgery she's someone's patient.
i'm going to check for vascular abnormalities that can prevent us from doing the transplant. at the same time i'm also checking for mushroom spores to see if that's the underlying---
if you lie about your love life maybe you lie about drugs. open.
aren't you at all concerned about what max is going through right now? shoving a tube up her rectum. then they're going to swab her stomach just like i'm doing. it's going to hurt just like this hurts which is nothing at all like the risk she's taking on the table.
and you don't love her do you.
i'm not talking about the leaving i'm talking about this. if you care for her at all you won't let her do this blind.
yeah.
maybe we should give these two a minute together before the surgery.
i didn't say a word to max.
she hasn't slept her judgment's compromised due to inactivity in her pre-frontal cortex.
then why did you sedate her? if she wasn't going to tell if she was never going to do the right thing why bother knocking her out? [pause] this isn't about them if she talks if she does the decent thing then you don't get to solve your puzzle your game's over you lose.
they're about to remove hannah's liver.
did you read foreman's article?
he basically stole it from me.
you're on his side?
what am i supposed to do? just sit back and take it?
[scoffs] lovely. revenge as motive for success.
max's heart stopped.
gastric content was negative for spores so no mushroom toxicity.
we ran blood tests for ovarian lung and lymphomas.
fever is 106 she's in full rejection mode.
her white count is normal.
chest was clear. tularemia doesn't cause movement disorders.
there is no ulcerations on the skin. [sighs] the bleeding it looks more like leptospirosis.
makes sense if we were in the sudan.
she hasn't even been out of the state in at least a year and neither has max.
you don't know? come on if you don't stay up to date on my notes where's your next article going to come from?
we're not as up on foreign languages as you are.
it came from a breeder.
i don't know. a place called blue barrel kennels. they only had the thing for like two days.
that wasn't there this morning.
the plague is carried by rodents not dogs.
you weren't in your room.
what you did was crazy but it was pretty amazing too.
really?
you knew and - you gave up half your liver anyway?
you really want her to stay out of guilt - that's not going to make either of you happy.
i don't own house's cases. you had just as much right as i did to write it up. you should have told me but i should have handled it better too.
if we want this not to get in the way of our friendship i think we both have to apologize and put it behind us.
you're welcome.
you talk to god?
i'll keep that in mind. his urine is dilute.
could mean that for some reason his kidneys aren't purifying the way they should which would let toxins accumulate in his body. we'll run the blood work and see what it tells us.
he was intelligent polite dignified he's not a typical 15-yr-old.
i'm over it.
are we certain he even had a seizure? him singing and healing he does it all the time doesn't he?
infection?
could be wilson's. or maybe it's a glycogen storage disease.
if there is some higher order running the universe it's probably so different from anything our species can conceive there's no point in even thinking about it. but i doubt it gives a damn about my butt.
i think penguins might as well speculate about nuclear physics! why are we having this conversation?
you cannot tell someone they're your colleague and not a friend and then casually chat about the afterlife.
what about 6 months ago? maybe there was a malfunction on her before pictures. some shadow that made the tumor look bigger than it really was. i'll go see what i can find out. [she walks out.]
of course.
he can't check out without your permission.
but his tumors are growing.
it's just a test; we just want to find out what's wrong.
with my article. [very bitter still]
he was shot?
baby shoes?
reliable witness.
because he's in shock.
he got co poisoning outdoors? [very sarcastic]
do you live near a gas supply?
if you star having trouble breathing you can press this button and the chamber will decompress.
muscle contracture.
no you probably have a carbon monoxide leak in your place. we have a guy there checking things out.
i'm sure it's frightening but you only think you
must be from the trauma.
we could do an angio to find the clotting.
we're going to snake a catheter in your femoral artery and up into your brain so we can check for clots.
what is wrong with you?
the man is sick and scared.
maybe you should take yourself off the case foreman.
that foreman should be off this case.
he doesn't like cops.
you got a better plan?
the bullet split into four fragments no exit wounds.
it won't be exactly precise comparing the location on an x-ray to an mri.
worse than usual better than you. he berated joe for being a bad cop.
i'm not sure. i didn't have my thesaurus with me.
no but there are other doctors in this hospital and other patients.
looking for what? the problem is obviously neurological.
where else can we look?
he's bleeding out!
bp's crashing he's going into shock!
we need a surgical team.
foreman get out!
he should be a part of this.
he's not irrational
he's got the most motivation to get this diagnosed.
question you might want to ask a neurologist. foreman is a selfish jerk but he's a neurologist and he's the only one who's been in that apartment.
no! i-
he's just a patient right? it's the job.
samples tested negative for toluene arsenic and lead.
we have to go back to joe's apartment get more samples<U+0097>
i'll take all the hazmat precautions. the chance of infection is next to nothing.
it's not your fault he got sick.
we can't do a biopsy. there's too much edema from the bleeding because you gave him heparin.
can i go to joe's apartment now?
[looking into foreman's eyes] biopsy showed nothing.
it's nothing personal we just didn't find anything.
[sighs a little still turned around] he's already maxed out. 20 milligrams per hour.
everything was negative.
i didn't go back. [shines a light in his eye] follow right.
house said we shouldn't go. too dangerous.
i'm sorry.
look straight forward tell me when you can see the light.
say it when you can see the light.
[yelling back] tell me when you can see the light!
your left side periphery is reduced!
ow! son of a bitch!
i decided you were wrong.
foreman broke my skin with a tainted needle.
yeah.
i'm not here for foreman; i'm here to save myself.
to retest for staph.
hamster droppings. could carry toxocara. explain the blindness.
could be meat with trichinella. would explain the high fever.
mold could be responsible for ergot poisoning which would explain the contractures.
so?
yeah i'm here. i don't see any birds.
whoa.
uhhh... no. there's barely any.
found a scraper; it looks used. sitting on a bucket.
[opening the bucket] yup.
it's not cryptococcus
house was wrong. the samples were negative [begins to run again]
we don't know!
nope. that was our lead.
foreman!
foreman!
he's in v-fib!
hit him again!
he has multiple system failure.
foreman get out!
you stole my article!
ow! son of a bitch!
we should retest him for bacterial meningitis.
his csf might show signs of <U+0096>
if it was toxic mold i'd be sick.
do i seem happy to you?
guillain-barre.
joe could have died before the paralysis had a chance to present.
for arbovirus? you think our jersey-beat cop has spent a lot of time exploring deep dark africa?
we'll box his liver trash his kidneys there's got to be a better way.
where are you going?
i'm fine. thanks for asking.
guillain-barre's also on the table.
something we give you will work.
feeling any better?
i'm not the patient.
no. so far it looks like i lucked out.
you can see again?
we'll start weaning him off one at a time. which one do we start with?
pancreas is failing.
the disease pattern is following the exact course as joe's.
could be a different strain of the same disease?
foreman's black.
lupus gout glaucoma osteoarthritis hypertension diabetes stop me any time <U+0096> they all affect black people more than whites.
the rat's showing symptoms?
are you feeling any better?
that's the legionella.
i'm trying to be professional here. there's no reason to be nasty.
so is house.
he doesn't try to kill his colleagues. [the thermometer in foreman's mouth beeps.] you can remove the thermometer now. it's down almost a whole degree! how's the pain?
how bad is it compared to an hour ago?
why are you asking me that?
sorry.
foreman tested negative for every bacterial infection that would affect his brain.
why would <U+0096>
where are you supposed to be when your son is dying?
he's in the chapel.
there's nothing i can give you for the pain.
i can have a nurse in here in five minutes.
i'll call a lawyer for you.
your dad is <U+0096>
he cares about you.
i can't do this.
that's from my article.
no. i'll be your proxy but we're not okay. you're scared you're dying but that's the only reason you wanna set things right. we're gonna get you better first and then if you still want to apologize i'll be around. i'll call that lawyer. [she meets house on her way out.]
no. as far as we can tell the only improvements the antibiotics are treating is the legionella. i think we need to consider alternate theories.
we do the biopsy.
there is no more time; the pain was almost unbearable already!
yeah of course. [as foreman goes under] i accept your apology.
he's out. the eeg shows he's still in pain the antibiotics have had more than enough time we're doing the brain biopsy.
now we're doing it now!
foreman.
it's nothing personal mr. foreman.
i'm sorry.
yeah you're a hero. if it wasn't for you we'd be cutting into a dead guy's head instead of foreman's. sorry. thanks.
it was rude and unnecessary.
go away.
we're out of time.
what does out of time mean?
so what? there's no point in waiting.
yeah! we should be except the cdc has got the cop's body under <U+0096>
you think this thing has killed other people?
foreman's already at 100% oxygen. once his o2 stats hit 90 i can't wait any longer. where's your suit?
92.
great. how fast can you get it in here?
you better have the bird the surgical team's in place.
how can you not capture a blind bird?
foreman told you everywhere he went.
house i tested the water the water's clean! [as cameron hangs up foreman's stats drop to 89. house climbs up a ladder and sees the water reservoir where the pigeons are drinking <U+0096> they have to be connected. he rings cameron again.] house.
i know.
i thought i had no choice.
he has primary amoebic meningoencephalitis. it's a parasite that goes through the nose and migrates into the brain where it feeds on brain cells. the legionella attacked the parasite that's why the disease slowed down.
we started him on an antiparasitic and the amoebas will clear out of his system.
and then we'll wean him out of the coma <U+0096>
there'll be no lasting damage from the parasite.
we don't know.
how're you feeling? can you talk?
[as house is checking foreman's reflexes] naegleria. biopsy showed the amoeba cdc autopsy eventually found the amoeba and house found it in the water in the cop's roof.
chase got a case in the er; he wants us to take a look.
cuddy put him on a 2-week nicu rotation. patient had an unexplained seizure.
he almost died.
hey. how are you doing? you look great. [foreman rushes in to hug her... rather uncharacteristically]
how are you coming along?
i don't feel guilty.
i was trying to save his life.
seizure that can't be explained by epilepsy. and accompanied by elevated calcium levels.
house. all those reasons this case bores you the er has already ruled them out.
whipple's. [she makes it sound like wibbles]
whipple's.
you'll be back playing with the big toys soon.
you don't have to say that.
and you'd be ok with that?
you were planning on pursuing grants of your own running a department.
[puts her hand on kara's chest] her chest muscles aren't contracting it's something else. her whole back is spasming two milligrams of diazepam stat.
what the hell is happening?
no record she's on lithium.
mom's mri was negative for masses abscesses there's no sign that she has myelogenous meningitis--
she has a subarachnoid bleed.
her blood workup shows her protime's elevated.
hiding booze is classic alcoholic behaviour that'd explain the bleeding.
if she's an alcoholic she would also be more prone to hypercalcemia.
do you want us to give her the pheno or not?
house!
how are you feeling?
there's somebody here to see you. [she steps aside to reveal brent holding mikey]
you hear voices?
we've been trying to diagnose a seizure that didn't exist. she faked it when her husband caught her.
she just happened to seize right in the middle of drowning her child? lucky break for the kid.
we already tested for--
stop pushing him.
he needs it.
he might not be able to get better.
he got sick doing his job.
i'm not touched.
i'm not guilt-ridden!
right now i'm annoyed! keeping him up all night in a seizure lab is not the way to advance his recovery it's too much!
thought i'd wait for the bone marrow biopsy results.
he asked me to wait for the results.
'course it is.
what can i say? apparently i'm a bitch.
it's annoying. insisting every day of your life is a blessing is basically calling everyone else shallow. gets old.
oh give it a rest.
biopsy's back she's negative for myelogenous meningitis.
you're ok with that? [alarms start beeping] she's seizing.
brain activity isn't accelerating it's slowing down.
muscle rigidity involuntary grasping and sucking motions she's in an encephalopathic delirium.
the delirium means her brain is shutting down reverting to its most instinctual functions.
delirium points to lithium i know we didn't find any but--
whipple's causes encephalopathic delirium.
the test could have been wrong.
we give kara niacin she'll come out of her delirium and she'll be totally sane.
her alcoholism caused the pellagra maybe it also explains the vomiting. gastritis.
you remove the drinking from the equation internal bleeding hypercalcemia seizure and pellagra are all back in.
wheat gluten.
no celiac causes nutritional deprivation. our patient has excess calcium.
wolff-parkinson-white syndrome?
you just gave them to us.
she's a katrina victim!
what are we going to do keep her in a room on a cardiac monitor until she has another arrhythmia? that could be weeks months! [while she says this we see house clutching his leg.]
you can't induce an arrhythmia in someone whose heart gave out nearly 48 hours ago.
i mean you shouldn't.
i'll go talk to him.
i can handle a simple consent form.
i'd like to talk to you about a procedure we'd like to do on leona.
he's not you! he's not going to mock me.
in order to figure out which circuit is misfiring we need to map all the electrical activity in her heart.
heart rhythm's normal. insert the first catheter.
all rhythms still normal.
send the first electrical pulse.
she's crashing. bp's plummeting.
send the electrical pulse.
second hallucination means we didn't fix her heart. maybe we missed something.
we covered <U+0096>
his leg hurts. walking takes his mind off of it. [house enters again.]
why are you so bent on her not having a hallucination?
it's getting worse.
she has an autoimmune disease. she needs a crp a rheumatoid factor a <U+0096>
how do you test someone's response to pain?
she's lost everything and you're breaking fingers. a new low.
for autoimmune diseases this advanced usual treatment's not going to help.
the only way to do that is to replace her entire immune system.
the sample contained stool and digested blood how did you guess?
yeah and for whatever in her intestines to come back up there had to be a blockage.
this girl is dying.
too much iron. he could have had hemochromatosis that's genetic.
i'll get leona a tibc and serum ferritin.
she's been living on the streets for eight months.
it's a chelating agent.
some neurodegenerative diseases like iron.
most common is aspergillus.
leona's lung's collapsed. the treatment's not working we've got the wrong fungus.
we can't ask leona where she was she's intubated.
recording studio.
she was desperate. if she didn't sell this she was stuck in hell.
soundproofing. absorbs sound also absorbs moisture.
i'll get leona a tibc and [something].
you took his history?!
no.
i was scared. pardon me for caring.
the bullet to your abdomen pierced your stomach nicked the bowel and lodged in the posterior rib. [she pours him some water.]
the one in your neck <U+0096>
-- went right through severed your jugular. the shooter turns out to be a guy who <U+0096>
you don't care why a guy walked into a hospital and shot a doctor? shot you?
the surgery went fine. you've had no post-op <U+0096>
you just got shot house. you should rest.
we biopsied his tongue. [shot of said biopsy.]
i didn't say we did blood tests.
you knew the next step would be a lumbar puncture. a lumbar puncture would almost certainly give us a definitive answer. since we don't have a definitive answer we must not have done an lp and the most common reason not to do an lp is increased intracranial pressure. [while cameron is speaking someone is wheeled into the spot next to house's bed (because in a hospital where every patient gets their own room house certainly can't!). the patient is jack.] he was shot by security trying to <U+0096> house. [house takes off the wires attaching him to the monitor.] will you <U+0096> house!
lie down you've got to be in pain!
[following him out] you're gonna rip your stitches out.
forget about the patient!
you can't just be walking around.
you've lost blood <U+0096>
you could damage <U+0096>
everything that lives eats; everything that eats poops: that's why every organ has a sanitation department a lymph system. whatever's doing the damage is dumping its waste in there. that's what you meant by trash.
house. the test was negative.
they don't like to release patients' operative notes.
he's sleeping.
this is really stupid.
he could have had a granuloma in his sinuses that bled that could have been caused by wegener's.
wouldn't it be safer to make a few educated guesses first? try some relatively safe treatments?
house. the patient isn't married he's a widower.
no trash against the fence. is your leg really better?
it could mess with his brain it wouldn't cause fever. [looking at jack] he's been sleeping a lot lately.
blood is a foreign object?
all the tests <U+0096>
house we need to talk to you.
you knew?
he's post-op chase is getting him up and around.
kidneys drain into the bladder which drains into the ureter there's no way it would mess with the scrotum.
we tested for cancer.
test was negative.
but then we'd have to cut through his stomach and since he's clearly got a bleeding problem this kind of surgery might <U+0096>
no blood in the prostate.
we assume the tests are right.
we can do another biopsy?
the technology is amazing. it magnifies everything ten times it's ten times the accuracy.
a person will be controlling the <U+0096>
house what are you doing?
house.
house get out of here! you're not sterile!
you're wrong.
house go back to your room. if this is a hallucination it's a good one: you're pain free you can walk <U+0096>
twice!
it's going to be okay. you're going to be okay.
