you know how house feels about people touching his ball.
right. my husband's gay. witty. i hear you're taking over for house. you're gonna be great. congratulations.
working with is different than working for. (she sits down in front of the desk) you saw house. how was he?
uh is thirteen around? i need her to sign off on her er transfer.
no they're not. i just dropped a patient in the cath suite and your guys were not in there. (cameron leaves foreman looks perturbed)
did you see who the patient is?
dibala is one of the most repressive dictators in the world.
who was still in prison after we patched him up. we fix dibala he gets on a plane and executes half his country. he's been repressing an ethnic rebellion in the south the sitibi people. [she looks back and forth between the two men.] it's getting worse.
this'll help.
you look good.
[sitting] acid reflux?
no.
[in dibala's room] patient's having a heart attack.
just thought you'd like to know.
too long an incubation period. and [she points at house.]
you paged me?
for what?
no.
are you from the sitibi people?
did they threaten you in some way? your-your family members back home?
she's being coerced.
you could have gotten killed.
he fired a gun in the hospital.
maybe next time don't yell out that warning. [his forehead wrinkles at that thought.]
can't be lymphoma. ldh is normal.
normal-looking nucleus.
i wasn't joking.
it's only natural to feel he should <U+0096>
not when it's justified. look at soldiers.
am i trying to kill our patient? of course not. but if he died am i supposed to just pretend that wouldn't be good for the world? the cells are neatly differentiated. this isn't lymphoma.
obviously not right now.
i think neurons don't grow back and he's already in his decline. anything he tells you any command he gives how will you ever know it's not just the delusions of a sick mad dying old man?
we could settle this with a test. anticentromere antibodies would point to scleroderma.
i guess. i just don't care enough about the patient to waste my time trying to convince anyone <U+0096>
[to foreman] treat him for blasto if you want. [she gives house a smug you satisfied? look.]
what are you doing?
i didn't say
i guess i didn't want you dead. [she leaves.]
we need a blood sample. we got to do the anticentromere antibody test. it'll show house is right. it's scleroderma.
because i didn't want to kill him. and you're right. i have to take a side. so i'm going to do what i can to keep him alive.
positive for anticentromere antibodies.
i know it's not conclusive but when you put it with all the other evidence <U+0096>
have you told thirteen you were wrong to fire her?
i've worked with you long enough to know you're reasonable. you can usually admit when you're wrong. but there's some deep part of you that when you find you're wrong about the most important decisions you've made you get insecure and you just retrench. if you want to mess up your relationship that's your right but you mess this up our patient dies.
o2 sat's down to 88.
bleeder.
[grabbing the paddles] charging.
clear. [she shocks him. the monitors don't change.] charging. clear. [as time seems to slow down she shocks him half a dozen more times.]
abdominal pain increasing in severity and frequency fever dehydration diarrhea weight loss.
you been out of the country or on any recent camping trips?
awesome.
in his office. he's really more of a decider than a do-er. he's decided we should start over. never know what previous doctors may have missed. [presses down on jack's abdomen notices something.] like this. [to jack.] does that hurt more when i push there?
i'm not sure.
he's constipated. physical revealed a mass in his abdomen so i repeated the x-ray. [shows the x-ray to foreman.] old one was clean. new one shows that his colon's almost completely impacted.
we need a barium enema and biopsy to confirm. [cameron pour some powder into a glass of water.]
last week yesterday today.
we're still waiting for the biopsy results but obviously it's a good sign. [starts to examine jack's abdomen.]
the abdomen feels normal but it looks bigger.
heart rate is elevated.
[moves him back.] ok mr. randall we need you to step back.
if we could intubate him we could hyperventilate him...
[semi-whispers.] we can't push that much.
50 milligrams of phenytoin. [no effect.]
injecting three milligrams of pancuronium. [jack stops shaking. they intubate him.]
electrical seizure activity's stopped. [everyone watches the monitor.]
i'll go tell the dad.
it's not just his brain. he's continuing to build up fluid in his abdominal cavity as well as the dura. we've inserted shunts to drain it.
treatment options are getting better every day. there's no visible mass so even if the biopsy comes back positive we've caught it early.
i'm saying we will do whatever we can.
okay i'll come up and help after i finish the biopsy.
if you're here i might as well be.
hey.
missed you this morning.
i thought you did want to wake me. at least that's what you said last night.
no no. i got the biopsy results. [hands foreman a file.] it's not cancer.
i just said it's not cancer. the cell morphologies were all normal.
there's obviously something wrong and i'm not even saying we need to talk about it right now. i just don't see why you have to deny it.
now you're denying you're denying.
[stops walking.] robert you can't do this. you can't hide things from me.
that's weird.
well that's ridiculous. if anything foreman should be feeling secure. he's the one who had the right diagnosis. we're the ones who talked him out of it.
all right.
that's what we're looking for but it would explain all the symptoms and all the normal test and imaging studies.
adenocarcinomas aren't caused by diet or environmental factors.
that's obviously not true. [machines start beeping.]
get the scope out. need five milligrams diazepam.
it's...[looks at the monitor.] eight. but the shunt's open and clear. this isn't intracranial pressure.
you think we're setting this off?
but with no abnormality in the other layers and no evidence of a cellular inflammatory reaction.
maybe the seizures aren't a new symptom. they're an old one.
abdominal epilepsy. the seizures would just look like pain until it spread to his motor cortex.
protein malnutrition can cause fevers and nothing causes malnutrition like excruciating stomach pain that gets worse every time you eat.
continuous eeg shows no interictal spikes. it's not abdominal epilepsy.
i paged you to show you this. [opens jack's gown to show several large red spots on his chest.]
if it's not cancer or infection it has to be autoimmune. systemic lupus complicated by a cns vasculitis would explain the rash fever ascites...
why? it was chase's idea.
what's really going on here? you need chase to help you over-prep for the m&m?
then say so. don't be a child. [gets up to go.]
yeah why?
we can't release you for at least two days. you have two broken bones a severe concussion collapsed lung.
you fell 30 feet. you should have died.
you have suicidal thoughts?
[checking donny's eyes] why do you think you're gonna die soon?
i can refer you to a cardiologist if you <U+0097>
and you think they're wrong?
if there is something wrong i know a doctor who will find it.
patient's a genetic time bomb.
you hate coincidence.
genes do.
the guy goes every day assuming his life will end at age 40. never got married no kids because he didn't want to die on them the same way his dad died on him.
it's a legitimate case.
i'll start on blood samples.
could have sworn i saw you put it on this morning.
to continue believing he's gonna drop dead?
how'd you get a court order to dig them up so fast?
find anything?
but the son gives us a new data point.
he didn't.
charming. i'll get a blood sample.
she wants to know if there's something wrong with donny just as badly as we do.
[to cheryl] can we speak outside for a moment?
you need to tell him.
his father is down that hallway through those double doors.
you're trying to protect him.
if donny does die this could be michael's only chance to meet his father.
it was the only way to get michael to do the marrow biopsy.
don't you have school?
he's not gonna believe he's healthy.
he's been preparing his whole life to die at age 40. he's had dozens of doctors tell him he's fine. you think you can change his thinking?
why are you dressed? you can't sleep?
[looks toward the bedside table] it's 4:00 in the morning.
babe come back to bed. call her in a few hours.
is everything okay?
last week i understood that you were stressed out about the dibala m&m and i gave you your space. but that's over now and you're still acting... [he gives her a puzzled look.] i'm worried about you.
and you'd tell me if you weren't? [he nods.] promise? [she gives him a look.]
[quietly] okay. [he gets up to leave.] hey. [he stops.] i love you.
there's several documented cases where tetrodotoxin ingestion caused apparent death.
could also be passed through four generations.
hey. how you feeling?
[checks his eyes] you just came through a severe trauma. what do you remember?
that's it? you were declared dead. you made it all the way to autopsy.
the pain is real. it's coming from somewhere. what about bone cancer?
he quit?
li-fraumeni syndrome. it's hereditary and it increases a person's risk of having bone cancer. [chase takes a sip of coffee.] you have another theory?
no cancers on the lateral cuneiform bone.
chase is lying to me. and i know you know. tell me what's going on please.
gamma survey revealed no tumors.
don't know.
it would explain the bradycardia too.
i'll get him started on the medication.
could be wilson's disease.
he's been missing for eight hours. robert chase. [chase opens the door.] c-h-a-s-e.
[dashes into the living room] never mind he just walked in sorry. [to chase] you could've called me.
to call me? it's 2:00 in the morning. where were you? ooh you're drunk.
[worried] what aren't you telling me?
she's a credit card kid. her parents are architects. they're working on a project in shanghai.
she has allergies. could be anaphylaxis or some heart condition that we don't <U+0096>
we need to find the cause of your low potassium. you could have a kidney disorder leukemia adenoma.
so did you guys go up to him?
and you went with him?
cool.
the rest of their story checks out. the hotel manager says mom and dad were charged for food and a room three pay-per-view episodes of stiletto.
are you trying to kill yourself? it's from the same batch the girls ate.
bulimia would account for her symptoms. we should do a barium swallow for mallory weiss tears start her on nutritional supplements get a psych consult.
chase went to the gym five times this week.
one of those times i followed him.
i followed him. and yes i know how humiliating that admission is.
the gym that time. but i know that something's <U+0096>
i've tried having this conversation with chase.
is he having an affair?
why should i believe you?
(talking from the control room)normal sinus rhythm. heart rate's fine.
(pushing the needle into jordan's chest) she's bleeding around her heart. (she pulls back on the plunger drawing out blood)
could be anything. a gas leak arsenic in the wallpaper fungus in the shower. i'll get samples from her room and the restaurant.
mr. keener i really appreciate you coming.
last night do you remember two girls about 16?
they made an impression.
i'm sure that happens to you a lot.
it's keener's journal. he must have left it in the restaurant that night. she went back claimed it belonged to her. she was looking for an excuse to knock on his door.
let me put it another way. we know jordan came to your room the other night.
we need to search your room.
you would cover your ass at the expense of someone's life? we know she brought up your journal. (keener closes the door)
sensible people only risk their marriage for something more serious?
we're talking about keener.
it's admitting statutory rape that could ruin it. which is why we'll never hear the truth out of him. rufies od explains all her symptoms. we should start treating her with flumazenil.
it looks like a toxic reaction. keener must have given her something.
there's a lot that wouldn't show up in a standard tox screen. but he's never gonna tell us the truth.
we will if we drug her. amobarbital would suppress
she's already dying.
we know you're scared. but we know you want to tell the truth. we're gonna help you do that.
what happened between you and jeffrey keener the night you went up to his room?
did he give you anything? a drink pills?
how did it make you feel?
what did it look like? a capsule? tablet?
with iron.
infection's clearing up nicely. you should be out of here in a few days.
(to jordan) you okay?
(to jordan) so...about what happened that night.
i'm sorry. i don't know why i always suspect the worst. if you say you're not having an affair you're not having an affair.
oh god you are.
okay. sorry. again. (chase sighs again and sits up resting his chin on his hand) if you don't want to tell...okay. but i could help. whatever this is it's eating away at you. we could get past it together. i love you no matter what.
then we'll be late. [she puts her bowl down.] you took a patient's life you lied about it for weeks you broke who knows how many laws and oaths to cover it up but i can live with it. we can get through it together.
but we need to get away from princeton-plainsboro. you can barely walk by the rooms where dibala was treated. [he frowns slightly at her.] why should we live with that hanging over our heads? if there was ever a time to turn the page...
perfect timing for us.
we'll miss all of you too. we'll start clearing out our things.
which is why you should be out the door too. this is completely unreasonable even for house.
[reading chart] you really believe this is cerebral vasculitis?
house wants to thread a catheter through his brain which could cause a vasospasm give steroids which could spread infection all over the place because it could be.
it could also be a severe vitamin d deficiency. he has a restrictive diet works long hours indoors became hypocalcemic got tetany and photophobia.
house ordered it foreman wants it of course we should do it. i'm just saying we're right to leave.
i'm not interested in guilting you. we're moving on.
divorcing sex from all emotional content?
certainly not in your world.
inside his leg? petechial hemorrhages.
patient's blood won't clot. we're back to square one.
is that <U+0096>
no fever. plus it wouldn't explain his spasmodic muscle contractions.
but widespread petechial rash nervous system involvement. it's some kind of blood infection. meningococcemia.
i've forgiven him.
i thought your position was our leaving is a ruse.
here's what doesn't add up. if you were serious about staffing your team you would know exactly which three fellows you wanted. you plowed ahead with this case even though you hadn't hired new fellows because you knew foreman would ask chase and me to help giving you more time to blow up our marriage.
well the difference between you and the patient is that you feel shame. guilt. that's how i know we're gonna get through this.
his liver's failing.
it's not meningococcemia.
klatskin tumor obstructing his bile ducts?
could've stopped him from producing clotting proteins damaged his blood cells causing small strokes.
we don't know how much the sclerosing cholangitis has damaged your liver. it might be in a year it might be in ten. but the odds are you're gonna need a new one. and you should know while no transplant committee will say this openly they'll never grant an organ to someone working in your profession.
i'm just being candid about <U+0096>
that your lifestyle has risks.
lungs are filling with fluid.
worms could easily have been a coincidence. almost be surprising if he didn't have 'em.
[disbelieving] seriously?
you either like the diagnosis or you don't. if you don't we need to keep talking. if you do you need to shut up. what we don't need is this stupid game.
do you want me to be mad at you?
i am mad at house because he's an ass. and i am mad at you but i don't want to leave you.
you don't mean that. this isn't you.
if that's how you feel... okay.
we've got him stabilized but no red cells no white cells practically no platelets either.
renal cell carcinoma.
you want to nuke the patient's marrow? he had no evidence of being anemic or immune-compromised when he was admitted.
i was in love with you. i was an idiot. tried to be like you tried to understand you because i thought i could heal you. [pause] you almost killed that patient.
you knew the diagnosis a long time ago. you risked another patient's life to bait your old team.
you did kill dibala. by playing god and teaching us to do the same.
you don't even think of them as people. they're just lab rats for your little puzzles.
motives do matter. lives can't come second.
not to you. all you care about is that taub and thirteen fell for your game. you'll poison them just like you poisoned chase.
you ruined him. so he can't even see right from wrong. can't even see the sanctity of a human life anymore. i loved you. [tearing up] and i loved chase. i'm sorry for you both. [crying openly] for what you've become. because... there's no way back for either of you.
can we talk somewhere?
why won't you sign the divorce papers?
will you sign them?
okay. i made a mistake coming here. i'm sorry. i'm gonna leave... this copy here.
and we failed.
it's interesting how your story leaves out the part where you murdered another human being.
but i didn't.
what do you think is gonna happen here? you're gonna logic me into coming back?
okay robert. i will answer whatever questions you want. but then you're gonna have to sign the papers. [she takes off her coat and puts it aside. she faces him ready for business.]
[surprised] how can you even ask that?
i was on the drugs because i was emotional. it was the emotions that led to the sex not the drugs.
because i knew i was falling for you and i didn't want to.
i got cold feet. i'm not proud.
don't
don't!
[angry] don't bring him up!
that's not fair.
stop this.
about what?
[almost crying] i don't know!
[still teary] how do you look so okay?
i still don't know why i said that. it's not even true. i did love you. just... not in a way that would have ever worked.
because everything you said is true. i'm a mess. i married a man i knew was dying. so god knows how screwed up i already was. him dying messed me up even more. i pushed you out of my life. and i-i'm unfixable. [she tries to laugh.] not you.
i'm sorry too.
what are your favorite parts that you remember?
i miss a lot. but when i think about missing you i think about that dance class that we took for the wedding. it's weird. i think he's never gonna hold me like that again.
[laughs] oh god.
we never really did have a proper good-bye.
i should go.
