have you seen wilson?
her job keeps her constantly on the road probably living off of airline peanuts and diet soda. severe b12 deficiency could cause all her symptoms.
you knew the patient had cancer?
why wouldn't you tell us?
wilson's dealing with a lot.
she was bleeding out her rear. we're looking up her rear. you think we needed house's expertise to set us on this course?
and it can wait till after we know where it came from and after he's done dealing with personal issues.
[gives her a long look] you're not the boss. boss gets to make the rules. boss gets to ignore… she's bleeding from... nowhere.
and a colonoscopy.
stop grinning and talk.
which one?
b12 deficit rectified but her heart's slowing even more.
why are you leaving?
bp's dropping. 90 systolic.
bp's still dropping.
still dropping.
don't think so. she keeps on blinking.
already paged him.
where is he? where is he?
i called him three times. he's not picking up. [to cuddy] what do you want us to do?
if he was here we'd be asking him what to do.
who wants to go service house so this patient can live?
the surgery was on her bowel not her brain.
and cause her heart to beat faster. it's slowing down.
but not the vitamin deficiency or the ectopic pregnancy. house would want a unifying theory.
it's not the surgery.
the location doesn't unless her brain’s in her bowels.
the surgery went fine. you were there you saw.
no. you want to watch a grainy video and have an epiphany.
i know you told us it was none of our business but if house thinks that your huntington’s is affecting you maybe it really —
you're desperate to do this without him. you're not trying to cure her. you're trying to prove —
it's a hematoma. a harmless pocket of blood which is why chase ignored it during the surgery.
it's not a ganglioma. the problem wasn’t the surgery.
only way to treat amyloidosis is to treat whatever’s causing it.
but you can all be wrong. the patient's joints don't hurt abdominal pain went away when the fetus did and no palpable lymph nodes.
sorry. sorry. [faux cheerful] um she has lots and lots of palpable lymph nodes joint and abdominal pain. she'll be better by dinnertime. [serious again] if we don't find the cause of the amyloidosis we never get her off that wire she never walks out of this hospital. [sighs] but hey who needs house hmm? so glad we lost those training wheels.
she's got lymphoma. the chemo's probably —
she's happy you’re gonna be fine. but she'd be happier if you were gonna be fine five minutes ago.
[ignoring him] if the donor had an infection that somehow slipped by a screening it could lay dormant —
ana at autopsy of all four victims were normal.
antiphospholipid antibodies normal.
you don't like coincidences.
he's been dead for four years. i assume his home's been rented to someone else by now.
guy who runs the gym has a camera. uploads the nasty stuff online.
cancer made no sense. the head and heart make less than no sense.
i know. i was making a point.
why are you talking?
he's a genius coffee repairman.
uh why is he pretending to fix the coffee machine?
he's better than we are.
we cut out a piece of it good chance she's a vegetable. nothing to hear nothing to say nothing to look back on.
the lung inflammation is a complication of the pancreatic failure which is reversible. this is actually his best chance. if we can find out what's wrong...
i didn't say —
no. but her life is still worth —
ladies.
shut up!
give me a scalpel.
he's coding. [the nurse hands him the defibrillator paddles.] clear. [zap] clear. [zap] clear. [zap]
clear. [zap] clear. [zap] clear.
no.
it won't matter. patient's dead.
thin slices through the parietal and temporal lobes were clean. occipital and frontotemporal regions were also —
each of these people were killed by one thing that attacked one organ. but never the same organ.
or six things wrong?
any type of cancer?
we checked apple inside and out when she came in she's clean.
you want to do a colonoscopy on a healthy four-year-old?
what if it is autoimmune?
this was your diagnosis.
then why do we care about his students?
not much talent either.
mri revealed no stroke or brain tumor.
you've discovered that one of us has been hiding the ability to stretch or shrink themselves?
i'll bet that really impresses the babes.
no. that would cheapen the purity of your achievement.
who needs an mri with contrast we've established that. what do you got on taub?
not without lead showing up in the blood work. [enters from another room] nothing in the medicine cabinet except some harmless toiletries. no signs of mold or fungus anywhere either.
no. not that i'd care if he did.
my wife's not doing the doorman.
we don't have a doorman. and i just do okay? drop it.
sounds like a real fun group.
are you saying my wife's a slut?
you called thirteen a moron for thinking it was drugs.
what'd you find out?
cut the crap house.
that's it? a bank account?
what makes you think it's a secret?
damn. always forget to use the right article when lying. it's not secret. we're refurnishing. we set the budget set up an account. i just couldn't make it to the bank the day we opened it.
[carefully] yes.
what happened?
my wife has her own bank account that house doesn't think i know about.
but even if it's doing what it's supposed to be doing it doesn't mix well with anticoagulants or anticonvulsives.
rapid detox risks arrhythmia another seizure hepatic failure.
he's not worried about his kidneys. he's worried about how he's going to explain the dialysis to his girlfriend.
he can't. he wants her to be happy too. he's telling her what she wants to hear.
no.
she's not sleeping around. she's not gambling it away. she hasn't even spent any of it. so i don't see a reason to do anything.
how many people do you know in completely happy and fulfilled relationships?
i am. most people cling to some storybook notion of what a relationship is. you can't have an imperfect thought. you can't have a private zone. you can't —
she makes me happy. i make her happy. it works. because we don't do storybook. and i don't plan to poke into her business.
you were right about the dialysis. he made it through the night without any more seizures or visual symptoms.
you can screw with me all you want at work but stay out of my personal life.
did you just hear what i said?
of course not.
i said i didn't want your advice.
what purpose could that possibly serve?
negative for thrombosis and chagas. could be infection.
it's possible some of the symptoms —
so how do we do it?
i didn't talk to her. [he keeps walking.]
they'll be great.
i couldn't find the letter opener. i went through some of the drawers in your desk looking for it. there were a bunch of statements in there from jefferson mutual.
to what? you've got $83000 socked away in a secret account.
uh the one that — that i…
you are amazing.
drugs could have set off a dormant neurological condition.
my wife's buying me a car.
you were wrong.
you owe me an apology. any rationalization you had for meddling in my private life disappeared when she had good reason —
not if something else changed.
his heart. he could have recently gotten an intermittent arrhythmia.
the experimental drug is causing arrhythmia which causes low blood pressure. combine that with those narrow vessels the brain doesn't get enough blood. that causes all of his symptoms. if we can trigger the arrhythmia and identify it we might be able to stop it from killing him.
no.
we're gonna insert three electrocatheters into your heart.
she understands. and you should tell her yourself.
you're gonna be fine.
what happens if you tell her?
you love her right?
if you open your mouth one of two things happens. she either forgives you or she leaves you. at best you wind up exactly where you are right now. it's noble to want to confess. really it is. but if the result's just damage and pain that's not noble. that's selfish.
stimulate right atrium.
how long you plan on keeping me from going home? until you're convinced i'm a different person one who won't do anything stupid?
right ventricle. and why do you want it to fade? why do you suddenly care about my marriage?
you obviously think it is broke.
didn't work.
his heart rate is stabilized.
hormones.
age.
start cutting nerves you risk his swallowing vocal cords sweating.
we believe it's necessary but you need to know the ramifications. you'll never be able to feel angina. you may not know if you have a heart attack. you may not be able to get help in time.
we can't do the surgery. we're back to where we started. visual agnosia.
this isn't progressing. it's there then it's not then it is. it's a new symptom intermittence.
since when is a new symptom irrelevant?
maybe we missed something. toxins.
maybe there is a batch of toxic paint that he used up a few months ago.
he's lost weight since he got here.
it's not a symptom but what if the toxins were stored in his fat cells a year ago and now they're being released into his bloodstream?
on his old paintings. we know he hasn't sold one in ages. but there weren't many in his studio. he's hid them somewhere.
just give me a few hours.
i need to talk to him alone. it's about your work. your paintings. i need to look at all the ones you've sold recently.
so… where are the ones you didn't sell?
it's not the paint it's the drugs.
i know it doesn't make sense but i'm looking at his paintings for the last six months. they're normal april june and august. but they're distorted may july september. [he shines a light on a different painting as he names the month each was painted.] every other month he was having visual agnosia because every other month he was on all three drugs simultaneously. the statin was one month on one month off. i don't know why the symptoms keep coming and going but it is the drugs.
in the fat? that doesn't make sense. these drugs aren't fat soluble.
i'm not sure. i think —
how do you know?
it's like a hairball but it's made up of undigested food. you can get it if your stomach acid's low which brandon’s was because of an experimental antacid. [he continues over disgusting cgi of the bezoar forming.] fruit and vegetable fibers and skins get stuck together and form a ball. it gets sticky ferments grows. it starts sucking up some of the pills he'd taken. some are never heard from again. but some get released. for the last week it's basically been giving him massive doses of all three at once.
he should be fine. are you glad he told you the truth?
but… were you happier before you knew?
i do know what it looks like so maybe this whole blindfold thing —
we need to talk.
house call your mom.
we can continue this differential in five minutes.
i don't know what your daddy issues are but don't deflect them on me.
yes i told her. but no she did not kick me to the curb. we stayed up late talking. we're going to continue talking. much like house should be doing with his mother right now.
multiple blood clots would tie together bowel ischemia lungs and the liver.
one millimeter cut through upper abdomen.
and the real children probably think they're accidents while she was hand-picked. everybody's got problems with their parents.
and it has to be the parents? magnifying pancreas.
you're saying you like her. so you don't want her faults to be her fault. but they're someone's fault and the only other people you know are —
no answer. [he been calling. now he hangs up the phone.]
he was joking.
i'll try to get wilson on the line.
kidneys were fine this afternoon.
that's a long road down to the kidneys.
nicole you gotta stay still.
her liver's been compromised. and the dts will cause her muscles to continue to twitch even under sedation. we need to paralyze her to do this procedure.
the problem wasn't the cyst. it's advanced dilated cardiomyopathy.
they sure look grainy.
she started vomiting as soon as we started the scan.
our patient hemorrhaged into her eye two years ago.
makes sense. bone marrow’s in overdrive. too many platelets. (to thirteen) sorry.
this morning you rejected drugs.
you have asthma?
ct shows one more calcification near the superior pyramid on the left kidney.
she won't even have a scar.
did you nick something?
well she's not breathing. we need to intubate. (taub pulls the oxygen mask off of spencer’s face and prepares to insert the endotracheal tube)
the breathing problem started after we fixed her kidney problem. means the rta isn't the underlying cause.
it’s not her lungs. no masses no infiltrates.
that could signal autoimmune or some kind of dystrophy as the underlying cause.
breath sounds on both sides.
give her her job back house.
(approaching the bench) sorry to interrupt your meeting mannix. here’s the result from the lung biopsy.
aplastic anemia takes lam off the table. unfortunately none of our other choices are any better. pnh with some sort of respiratory infection.
mini strokes can cause blackouts and memory loss.
maybe he oded on caffeine.
wow. did they just move here?
this is no way to raise a kid.
which is why single people shouldn't have kids.
i think the traditional family is a fraud. even married moms are single moms. daddy just pays some bills and reads just enough bedtime stories to not kill himself out of guilt.
he might be the exception. on the other hand you are fairly screwed up. [he goes back to the living room.]
[pulling the curtain aside] and no view. building's half-empty. he'd rather have a view of the turnpike than the park.
guy's not a pragmatist. he's a flagellant.
mom would've cleaned better.
he was just asleep. means no memory loss. and sleepwalking doesn't kill. unless he walks out a window.
stress-induced insomnia. lots of people sleepwalk.
it's a toxin.
we're right back where we started. the mold we found doesn't cause these symptoms. and there's nothing else at his home.
conscious.
you know just because we're stuck here and i'm lying down doesn't mean we need to get deep.
i like my life as it is.
any change in demeanor?
[getting up and checking the equipment] maybe it's a result of the blood pressure change. delta waves out of nowhere. he's now asleep. brain's supposed to turn off motor function.
we should stop him.
let him plow into some innocent bystander?
his reaction time could be slower.
yeah i see. [a woman is leaning into jerry’s car. only her butt and legs are visible.] he's having sleep sex.
i know.
how do you know?
coke explains the narcolepsy. narcolepsy explains the sleepwalking.
forgot he did cocaine? you're going with forgot over lying?
dealers cut this stuff with all kinds of garbage.
you want us to score cocaine from a drug dealer?
how do you know what a drug dealer looks like?
i didn't notice her holding any —
uh we're not cops. cops aren't allowed to say that right?
[looking around before leaning close to sadie] i would like to buy some cocaine please.
thank you.
glad you like it pablo. now can we go?
we found lactose. the coke was cut with milk powder.
he's not. he has milk in his fridge.
i don't know. what does that —
how you doing?
the machinery agrees with you. that means your problems were caused by the coke.
you were asleep.
in your sleep. you weren't responsible.
it's like a dream. we all do stuff in our dreams we wouldn't do when we're awake.
what's that? [he points at jerry’s chest. there’s blood on it.]
because there aren't any. i think… you're sweating blood.
it's cancer. leukemia explains everything.
the bleeding.
the rash.
the fatigue.
leukemia has false negatives all the time.
wait. [he pulls jerry’s legs free of the blanket. the right one is several shades darker than the left.] have you been testing any tanning creams or sprays?
bp's too low.
no. scleroderma.
vasculitis?
she's… kind of busy.
it is possible the sleep issues aren't medically related. maybe they're both insomniacs due to the turnpike noise. maybe they both drink too much coffee maybe —
how do you know?
what? are you serious?
why their place had no music no view no decor.
how'd you get this case if he didn't come to the er?
it's a legitimate question.
why does he have two locked doors?
his place is totally clean. no animals. no hidden drugs or alcohol. no lead in the paint.
in his entry hallway getting his mail.
why are they here?
cameron’s with the patient. uh everybody else went home.
crohn's causing an abscess.
(to kutner) blood in the field. not where i'm looking.
here's a hint. it's the bloody part.
it's like you've never done this before. use the suction.
cutting out last piece of bowel. (he puts a piece of the bowel in a glass dish which cameron is holding at the ready. she hands it to house who puts it under the microscope)
suture.
little bleeder here. cautering.
we would've seen it on the intestines.
his guts just exploded. it might be a tad painful to make him eat.
blood test will be done soon.
i'm guessing that's a new technique.
pretty sure it was your idea. you want me to slow down the test?
you'll increase his pain but not enough to make a difference. he's on morphine.
and why do you think i’ll be doing this?
that was because it was an emergency.
(looking over his shoulder at house) she's having me sleep on the couch. just for a few nights. i'm not doing this to save my job. i'm doing this to save his life.
even if you're right that external pacemaker's gonna fail eventually. and i don't have the skills to put in a permanent one.
she's a factory worker. means she probably works close to a lot of recent immigrants.
could have picked up a parasite from a co-worker.
checkbook balanced place spotless. looks like she builds her own furniture. if you're this grown up at 16 what happens at 30?
kutner's not that bad.
yeah friendly is a dangerous thing.
corollary is there is such a thing as not trusting enough. too much you get hurt. not enough you don't live.
so if it's not the heart…
didn't you just say it's not?
there's no sign in her blood work. and if she had vasculitis she'd be too weak to work in a factory.
beta-blockers don't cause psychotic breaks.
one that rules out vasculitis.
rape could mean std.
labs show the brown urine was caused by shredded red cells.
i didn't see any in the bookshelves but they were painted.
lesions.
could be infection. mrsa.
you wanna treat a patient nearly poisoned to death by giving her more poison?
so what does arsenic treat?
we already ruled out stds and even if we were wrong that much arsenic in her system would've wiped out the syphilis.
apl explains the lesions and why they appeared after we took the arsenic out.
best match would be a sibling or a parent.
i have huntington’s disease. i'm dying. i don't know when it'll happen but it'll be sooner than i ever planned. and i'd do anything to stop it. because the only way to make anything right the only way to make your life matter is to live as long and as well as you possibly can.
no.
to try to convince her to do the right thing?
it's a true story. who cares if it's not my story?
it's her life. point wasn't i'm dying. point was she should live. you should have told her. instead you tell her to call the cops give her stats on dna markers. everything's by the book. nothing's ever personal.
biopsy confirmed apl. she needs a bone marrow transplant.
she's scared.
she wants to deny her parents the satisfaction of saving her life.
it was her immediate reaction.
you're saying she's lying about being raped?
house is gonna get someone killed.
guy knew he wasn't coming back. everything's laid out for us. i'll check for toxins in the kitchen. [he puts on gloves.]
i've got debt too — you don't see me acting like a lunatic.
loa loa filariasis.
leishmaniasis.
down in the grc. thirteen started her clinical trials today.
[looking at a photo from the file] steroids. no one looks this fit without cheating. anabolic steroids hack away at the immune system left her open to a pulmonary infection.
and you know this because?
her bp's fine.
the only good way to test for eia is to recreate the conditions in which the attack occurred. but we can't exactly make her run out in the cold on a broken ankle.
any shortness of breath? tightness in your chest?
your cuff's slipping down. you want to stop for a moment?
take it you don't get a lot of fat in your diet.
do you ever indulge?
i didn't say every. but a whim every now and then can make life a little —
[checking her neck] no pulse. this isn't asthma.
[entering with kutner] patient's heart stopped.
no. and she clearly doesn't have implants. or joint pain. what's going on?
that's got to be illegal.
how come you haven't said anything about this?
you told us when you renewed your subscription to national geographic.
so you don't mind if i tell house?
and by set it up in his name you mean?
you're insane. with two days to live.
he will if i tell him. or you cut me in for 30% and i keep your secret safe.
yes. moving into the — [he stares at the screen.] whoa —
because our patient's a big fat cheater.
gastric bypass surgery. she had her stomach stapled. then had the records from her files pulled so it wouldn't ruin their dvd sales.
if you mean foreman and thirteen apparently the first appointment of the drug trial's an all-day thing.
should we treat her like a 60-year-old asian man too? she's not fat.
not if it destroyed the musculature of her trachea.
she didn't mention it.
we think your surgery might've caused an infection called sibo. the stool test will help us to confirm. put some of what you're full of in here.
sure. but i wouldn't call a meeting of the lollipop guild and tell them they can grow if they work real hard at it.
yeah by telling them to do what you were unwilling to.
i'm not sure you're happy. but if you are being healthy didn't do it. being pretty did. poop in the bedpan. [he taps it with his pen and leaves.]
they're not.
it is. you just can't appreciate it because it's gonna destroy your career.
clinic patients just whining.
high fat content indicates sibo.
that amount of encapsulation's perfectly normal.
tell her to find a decent plastic surgeon who can correct the placement —
tell her it's a virus. it probably is and it'll get her off your back for a few — [he looks at the sleep monitor.] emmy’s eeg is flatlining.
you felt fine last time.
and your leg is bleeding. [he gets a syringe and sticks her in the calf just above the bloody cast.] you feel that?
numbness in her left foot is ascending into her leg.
or her brain.
but if it's her nerves it could be transverse myelitis.
the test will measure the amount of time it'll take this electrical impulse to travel along your nerves.
no. give me your arm.
i learned at med school you don't actually cure with kindness.
not really interested in your rationalizations.
you mean no one would buy your dvds.
give me your arm… please? [her arm is shaking as she raises it about six inches off the bed.] keep your arm raised.
no. it's your muscles. we don't need to run this test. it's not what we thought.
she has muscle weakness. could indicate myasthenia gravis.
also could be some kind of toxin.
do you have an appointment with him?
uh gone. gone for the day. but uh we work for him. we can set you up in the er. [she shrugs.]
the antibiotics will make her feel better. she's outta here by morning.
it's gotta be. she has sleeves of tattoos and piercings from god knows where.
she has muscle weakness. could indicate myasthenia gravis.
i don't think sabotaging your boss' office is a wise counterattack.
i don't think replacing that was part of the renovation plans.
the chelation didn't work. her muscles are still deteriorating.
why aren't we doing this in your office?
[his beeper goes off. he puts it on vibrate.] guillain-barré. usually starts as a muscle pain patients compare to the pain of over-exercising.
deedee!
you're not dying okay? this disease is manageable.
no. you're strong enough to walk. come on get your ass out of bed and walk.
i brought some visitors. cheer you up. it's okay. come on in guys.
mood congruent hallucinations.
what about a prion disease?
there are some possible treatments.
your head mri was clean. means you don't have cns lymphoma.
other types of brain tumors.
i can have something brought up for you. what do you want?
you can't give up. we're gonna figure this out.
prion disease.
there are a few treatments but there's no guarantee. i'm sorry.
[entering] uh where's cuddy? it's not cns lymphoma.
she's getting worse. you want me to find cuddy and get her approval for the brain biopsy?
superficially i loved it. but deep down i think i was miserable. why? what's going on?
okay i’m gonna go get cuddy's approval for the brain biopsy.
cuddy wanted us to eliminate seven different things.
bad idea to get into a power play with somebody who has the power.
whatever personal drama you're playing out you'd be a lot smarter to —
i took her for an mri looking for —
i didn't give her anything. she got depressed at the lack of direction. we went to the cafeteria for some chocolate cake. took her to her room hung a banana bag let her rest.
she asked for it. i figured —
we just have to reverse your gastric bypass and get you back on a high carb glucose-enriched diet.
no. there's a drug that manages the symptoms but it's not a cure.
you don't want to have the surgery?
i bought it. i bought that it was really about trying to make people's lives a little better.
no she's a freak.
what?
did chase test for the biliary tumor?
house is gonna kill us.
so the ct.
somehow i don’t think that was really about me.
you got a christmas present.
she’s 16. the kind of boozing that destroys your liver that early parents or teachers would notice. [he pulls the present from the trash and unwraps the book] wow. manual of the operations of surgery by joseph bell.
yeah. gifting antique medical texts. oldest gag in the book.
where do you work again? [the locker is opened. kutner starts going through it] why would house throw out a book worth hundreds of dollars?
can you get us into natalie soellner’s locker while we’re here? [kutner pulls out a baggie and closes the locker. they follow the janitor down the hall] house always has an agenda. just screwing with us isn’t —
he was making us fight over who could get him the best present. [he starts checking the contents of natalie’s locker while kutner sniffs the shrooms] this time he’s just making us wonder. no animosity. no ugly competition. i think it’s a real present.
uh-oh. [he pulls a giant bottle of acetaminophen from the locker] maybe it wasn’t those kids who poisoned natalie. maybe it was natalie herself.
it was a book.
most bookstores don’t carry joseph bell “on surgery.”
how did you know that? [wilson fidgets. taub steps closer to the desk] what is it?
[he and kutner look at each other] yes when something’s nothing the natural response is to guess the color of the paper it’s wrapped in and then descend into stunned silence.
then how did you guess…?
heartbeat?
thirteen and foreman were busy drug trialing and we needed an answer on the overdose so we called her in. she’s just updating us.
this is a good experience for me as my parents never got divorced.
house. we all know what’s going on here. cuddy gave you that present.
[standing] i think… [loud long sigh] i think she loves you.
just tell her how you feel. if you won’t then i will. i’ll walk right down there. damn it. love like this needs to fly free.
he has very girly handwriting by the way.
house. it’s tuberculosis.
it was a more subtle clue. homeless guy uncontrollably hacking up blood. cough’s lasted two months. he was cachectic.
yes. again if only there was some subtle clue like the fact that he was standing next to her in the soup line for a week.
tb can cause lung failure liver symptoms… fits.
uh you don’t have clinic duty today.
no reaction.
if you had a mold allergy it would explain your symptoms.
this kid didn’t do anything to you.
yeah yeah yeah. i get it. you were bullied yourself when you were in school. take it easy.
right. the indian foster kid whose parents were shot in front of him. you were clearly homecoming king. [kutner turns back to simon.]
i think we got our diagnosis. our little girl’s a drunk.
her heart’s slowing down. [he lowers the bed]
i’m trying. [to nurse] push one amp atropine.
didn’t come up on the ct scan.
best case winds up with her teenage father who just got voted captain of the varsity bullying team.
you all right?
and he tried to off himself. he’s obviously mentally ill. pain’s probably psychological.
it is if your solution is sucking on a tailpipe. sane people don't attempt suicide.
i’d shoot the guys with the torches. not one doctor this guy has seen in the past three years has been able to find a single thing wrong with him. what does that tell you?
choose a statement in each group that best describes how you've been feeling lately including today.
i usually sleep well. i have some trouble with sleep. i have a lot of trouble with sleep.
he’s a calm person. he’s more nervous than most people. he’s so nervous he's miserable.
interesting.
no it's just we've seen that in other… patients.
he can do chores around the house. with help he can do chores. he no longer can do chores.
i believe there's hope. hoping for things to get better is a struggle for me. most of the time i feel completely hopeless.
you think he's had food poisoning every day for the last three years?
so would the carbon monoxide he sucked out of his car. it’s not a toxic reaction. it’s a psychosomatic reaction. the pain profile showed an excessive concern about his physical health difficulty sleeping getting out of bed.
not according to the pain profile you ordered. it’s not a diet issue. we should start him on antidepressants for his sake as well as his family's.
we’re not diagnosing you either.
what muscle? he says it hurts all over.
means the pain's not psychosomatic.
why did he think only you two would be singing in the rain?
bone windows are normal.
hemingway goebbels romeo and juliet.
saying i wouldn't do it under any circumstances means my whole family was suicidal?
just because you grew up in a charles dickens novel…
thorax is clear. no tumors in the lungs. the only betrayal comes from father of the year in there. he has a wife a kid — people who count on him to have a pulse.
my parents live very happily in queens. they never attempted thought about or attempted to think about committ — [sees kutner staring at the monitor] what?
that’s not cancer.
but we did find edema in his intestines air in the intestinal blood vessels and house won't answer his phone.
there’s air in the intestine. it has to have come from somewhere.
he insisted he was no longer —
[to jeff] keep squeezing the ball. [jeff grunts with pain from the effort.]
they’re trying to help you.
then how about helping them you know by not being —
i know it's better than what you tried to go through. [he stands and walks past kutner.]
and lactate level is steady. it’s not any kind of glycogen.
chest your abdomen — you feel anything there?
pain started in his abdomen. now it's hopped from his left thumb to his left leg skipping the trunk entirely.
hopping pain means it's something in his brain not his body.
what type of lawyer do you need? i’ll bring it up at the next world domination subcommittee meeting.
pain hopped to another limb on the same side. it’s got to be central —
if we can't even resolve body versus brain we're never gonna diagnose the guy.
because we ran out of ideas.
so now you think —
assuming you're right.
that’s what we're trying to stop.
colleague. we were residents together. i should've done more to stop it. he had the mother of all god complexes. so busy treating everyone's problems he was blind to his own. helped himself to a vial of insulin. it’s a miracle he survived. his friends and family almost didn't. he was a selfish ass.
because he realized there's nothing he could do.
stds testosterone issues that summer on fire island.
testicles.
yeah. pays to hang around.
no. [taub writes something in the chart and grabs his briefcase.] see you tomorrow. [he leaves.]
bleeding ulcer.
could be lymphoma.
because she failed a bleeding-time test?
this is gonna be convoluted isn't it?
you're screwed.
and is there anything we should be doing you know to actually help the patient?
you should lie back. just stay real still.
no problem.
[checking her neck] no pulse. get the paddles.
got a pulse. it's not itp. she clearly doesn't need fake radiation.
transthoracic echo and bubble studies show nothing. her heart's clean.
drugs or alcohol.
so she lets you nuke the patient no problem but makes you jump through hoops to give her a bath? why would she do that?
you come to procedures now?
cameron tell you to be here?
it's not cold agglutinins.
she screwed up a room number six years ago and you decide she has brain damage?
two subtle clues six years apart. that's hardly compelling evidence.
or the right.
no filling defects in the biliary tree.
increase to 100% o2.
are you talking about cutting into her skull?
i know gas is expensive but i could've given you a ride.
she just got admitted.
pneumothorax could be secondary to a bunch of things. cystic fibrosis lung cancer.
our gift to society. we want to get you back to work as soon as possible.
you're washing pots and smashing garlic?
it’s not asthma. lung volume is normal. she did have a uterine myoma removed eight months ago. central line iv could have made a hole near the lung that slowly expanded.
so... you're happy to be here?
we need a biopsy to confirm —
no offense but you're not working. what does it matter if you spend a little time in bed?
a warm apple fritter makes me happy. it doesn't fulfill me as a person.
if it didn't i’d have found a way to go back to tucking tummies.
i didn't say i was happy. i loved being a plastic surgeon. the money the life style and in a lot of ways this job stinks. i'm making five bucks i’m always annoyed... but —
exactly.
sit up.
your belly's full of blood.
someone set a trip wire. we were with the patient the whole time.
uh no tumors no cysts no clear etiology.
if you're not obsessing you must have already figured it out.
do you think we should have kids?
ten years ago. things change.
i said it because i wanted to sleep with you. and then i fell in love with you. and i realized that i really could be okay with it. it wasn't like i had this burning desire to have children.
no. of course not. i'm just... revisiting.
don't you ever wonder what it would be like?
i did a free flap closure to avoid any scarring. she was lucky — the scratching didn't cause any brain damage. but the first thing she said when we woke her up was “it still itches.” (he sits down beside kutner)
so the problem's in her brain?
she wants to do what she wants to do. what's crazy about that?
those are diffuse processes. this is localized.
so would a brain tumor.
patient's mri was negative. no tumors no lesions.
i paged them.
technically it can't still be that because it never could be that. she scratched through her skull while she was sleeping. unless she was having a dream about fleas —
hang up he's here.
patient started experiencing spinal shocks before the machine was turned on. l’hermitte's sign.
no idea.
but an aggressive spinal hemangioma could.
it involves house foreman and thirteen which means it's either dumb dangerous or tragic or a combination. i'm embracing my ignorance.
(also looking at the monitor) what's that? hemangiomas travel solo. this thing has brought a friend. masses in her lungs and spine. one in her pericardium.
classic mesothelioma. it metastasized outward to the spine and muscles.
mesothelioma shouldn't grow this fast.
actually all he needs us to do is tell wilson to do something. so... (he leaves)
she'd be crawling with worms. we'd have noticed it. gorham's disease and kasabach-merritt can both cause super-aggressive vascular tumors. (his pager goes off and he reads it) patient's heart just stopped. (he takes off toward dana’s room)
no it's not — look.
we're transfusing platelets ffp everything to try to keep her stable. but we can barely keep up with the blood loss. at this rate she could be dead by the end of the day.
you're talking about embolization?
you can't kill the tumors without also killing healthy tissue. if we wipe out 3/4 of her lungs...
house. if you're looking for returnable bottles kutner’s already cleaned it out.
women do that. it's perfectly natural. not scary at all.
can't do surgery until her cycle's over and she stops bleeding.
how you feeling?
you almost died. for the second time in eight months.
how do you feel about your life choices this time?
i always worry on my deathbed i'll think i didn't do anything really important.
i don't know. i know i can't be happy without you.
you went out of your way to pick him? this is nothing.
could be alcohol. shouldn't we let the er rule the obvious out —
people often underestimate alcohol's effect on their —
no way to know unless you went to medical school.
so the kid lied?
confused whether you molested him or not?
syphilis could explain the hallucination.
you don't have to admit you did anything with the kid. you weren't always a priest.
maybe it wasn't a hallucination. maybe it really was jesus.
it's cool he's a child molester?
he had honest eyes?
i'm dying to discharge him because he's not sick not because he's a pedophile.
you actually believe the kid got confused?
had — there's nothing wrong with him.
you want to examine his character go to a soup kitchen. we are done testing him for things he doesn't have.
we know what's wrong and now that you've slept it off…
are you hiding from someone? why are you so intent on staying here?
why would they leave?
he's giving up his career for her?
if you ask me foreman should be done with thirteen. he's not gonna get a better job which means he'll end up resenting her for losing this one which she'll end up resenting. (as he talks he is examining the items in the refrigerator)
she's not a nympho. she's bisexual which by the way means she's accustomed to partners who don't need a map to find the treasure.
(picking up a pack of cigarettes) co poisoning might have come from these cigarettes.
you can buy a shovel.
it's not house's fault either. he gave you guys a chance you blew it.
chest pain wasn't angina. ekg ruled out heart attack.
(looking at the monitor) lungs are clean. no embolism. no pleurisy no pneumonia.
got something. looks like intercostal neuralgia.
are you seeing jesus again?
ophthalmological exam's normal. nothing structurally wrong with the eye.
csf was clear for guillain barre.
imaging studies have been clear for tumors.
you think his spleen?
i don't and even if i'm wrong i think you should still split up. it's just a matter of time before one of you finds the other in bed with another woman.
12 years and counting.
funny how the two people in the room who think relationships are easy are both single.
everything could be good. very little ever is.
which minor bugs?
house?
it's the holy water.
but he has pneumocystis a harmless bug that's everywhere and never makes anyone sick unless they have a compromised immune system.
so prove it. have an aids test.
i'd say you just lost that.
we should start treatment for aids.
i'm willing to take that chance.
i'm more worried about the kid he molested. we should be finding him and getting him tested.
maybe he did maybe he didn't but that's a chance i'm not willing to take.
this isn't some middle-aged barfly who likes it bareback. this is an innocent kid who was molested.
yeah heaven forbid a diddler has job issues.
(approaching the boy) ryan?
i'm dr. chris taub. can we talk? (they shake hands)
uh in private?
um i work at princeton plainsboro hospital. i have some news about father daniel bresson.
we believe he has aids.
well… uh given the incident four years ago i think you should be tested unless you've already done so.
very.
have you been tested?
and?
it's not a new symptom. it's just a reaction to the aids meds.
you think it's hyper-ige syndrome?
i still think it's aids. on the off chance it isn't we're pursuing other avenues.
(approaching ryan) ryan.
uh we don't know what's wrong with him.
i don't think that's a good idea.
um why don't i get you — (ryan moves toward daniel’s bed) come on ryan now's not a good time.
we got a kid who could mate with himself and we think he didn’t have enough to drink? there are dozens of intersex disorders persistent pelvic pain could mean congenital adrenal hyperplasia pmds?
he’s a kid. parents don’t think he’s ready to deal with it.
(talking into the microphone) jackson we’re going to get started so try to lie still.
(to thirteen) how long do you think the post-breakup awkwardness is going to last?
if by professional you mean he’s a t1000 built by cyberdine systems? i never understood what you saw in him.
here’s my impression of foreman on the happiest day of his life. (he turns toward thirteen with a blank expression on his face) now the saddest day of his life. (same blank expression)
house was a jerk to split you two up but bottom line he did you a favor.
sometimes it just happens.
sure.
(about to perform the test) now take a breath just try to relax.
up to the bladder start the saline.
i’m going to look around and pull back on the scope. (jackson whimpers)
pericardial effusion we need ten gauge and a syringe.
pelvis plus heart doesn’t fit with any of the syndromes associated with mosaicism.
it’s an infection. swab of the kid’s water bottle turned up toxoplasmosis.
noticed you smell like thirteen’s soap every morning.
is he okay?
heart liver kidneys and pancreas. obviously whatever this kid's got is something systemic.
or systemic scleroderma.
i'm afraid not. (thirteen is standing at a nearby counter)
i'm so sorry. we'll start him on anti-inflammatories. if we're lucky that will slow down the progression.
we thought you were gone.
and what happened to your cane?
he's got scleroderma. (foreman and thirteen come in)
also toxoplasmosis dehydration sle various intersex disorders.
but energy drinks don't explain —
he was sober when they brought him in. there's also the nosebleed the collapse.
mr. greenwald i'm dr. taub. this is dr. kutner.
we're going to put this up your nose scan for any problems. i can assure you that we are completely unexcited about that. (to marika) excuse me sweetie.
(preparing to do the test) this might be slightly uncomfortable.
do you think my nose is too big?
no.
they tell me it suits my face.
maybe. maybe that's just the social contract. you tell me i look great. i tell you you're a people person. how can you know the truth?
(to the cafeteria worker) what do you think of my nose? please tell me the truth.
just proving a point.
(sitting down at the table) chronic lymphocytic leukemia could explain brain and kidney problems.
four or five times.
could be diabetes.
congenital disorders generally don't wait till you're 46 to manifest.
sandy koufax is jewish. greatest left-handed pitcher of all time.
it's both.
but i could have said neither. diabetes makes more sense.
they have to be done every couple hours. you're punishing me because you're jealous that i'm spending time with your best friend.
(while doing the test) it's the only way we can do the test.
we all have thoughts.
i understand. i don't think it would be fair to define me by my passing thoughts.
what? no. why would you say that?
are you serious? of course you're serious.
why'd you page me here?
seems to be dead. why'd you page me here?
i finished the last blood draw.
last blood draw was at 6:00 am. sugar levels never rose above 120 all night. (taub misses and has to chase down the ball and start again)
(hitting the ball again) i still think it's the endocrine system. maybe i just got the wrong gland.
fine. i'm not playing racquetball with wilson. i was never playing racquetball with wilson. (pause) i thought it would be helpful if a department head owed me a favor. but it's not worth this.
infection.
i'm here to invite you to lunch.
i've been made. house sent me back to you as a double agent.
i told wilson you sent me to get information.
he let me print out his e-mails.
no.
as long as i was sitting there i thought i'd print 'em anyway. (he hands a stack paper to house) top one's the one you're looking for.
it's out going to jgonzalez@nymercy.net. there's a joan gonzalez in oncology. it's a consult.
you're wrong. there was a patient file attached.
it was password-protected.
you think wilson’s sick?
i don't want to ask this but have you ever had reason to think he might be depressed?
now do you know who you are?
we removed the damage. maybe we were wrong about the problem.
it could be the effect of the surgery.
94.2
i can't reach house. it just goes to voicemail.
cancer? we could text him.
house is right. everybody's got three or four meaningless anomalies that'll come up on a scan. chasing each one will take time we don't have.
irrelevant. what else you got?
if he's got multiple avms screwed-up blood flow would explain everything.
can we do that before he freezes?
your wife's probably just late.
i have a conspicuous nose.
why are we taking this case?
sorry i'm late. and yes green pee does meet the only diagnostic requirement you care about… it's interesting. but is it worth us taking this case?
okay i accept. she has adult-onset epilepsy and she really likes those saint patrick's day beers.
her neuro exam was normal. no subsequent seizures. it's not life-threatening. it's not important.
i'm fine.
airing disagreements doesn't qualify as arguing.
there are 400 japanese teenagers you were playing halo with last night you're better friends with. your avatar should ask their avatars how they're doing.
i wasn't arguing with him.
fine i was. [he picks up a bottle of pills.] and you know what i was right.
you got conned. methylthioninium chloride. notable side effect green urine. she's a nurse. she knows the dosage. knows how to fake a seizure. she pees pea soup and gets the warm attention of doctors all week long. she's a munchausen and you're her mark.
no good reason it'd be sitting in her desk.
sorry i rushed the jewish frat. we peed in private.
carbolic acid? yeah maybe she accidentally inhaled some at a gout treatment facility circa 1890.
she'd have to drink five bottles a day.
sure.
i'm a doctor. you?
i have some time. come with me.
how'd you slip?
you get checked for labyrinthitis?
lie down a sec.
that's normal. [turning neil’s head from side to side.] so what are you teaching?
all right you can sit up.
i figured you had a tiny calcium deposit in your inner ear. i just shifted it around.
forget it.
no i'm married. boring.
a few years back i was one of them. good luck neil.
yes.
[pulling an empty cigar box from house’s trash] those cigars were for me.
i'm on a diet.
yeah it takes at least four people to look inside a crazy woman's lungs for imaginary worms.
i'm telling my wife we don't need to downsize but maybe we do.
i don't care about the money. i just feel bad for rachel.
thanks. makes me feel much better hearing my wife's a gold digger.
or house just screwed up. if you misinterpreted the breath sounds as soft instead of loud it's laryngospasm instead of bronchospasm which you can get from a simple panic attack which she was having.
screwed up is maybe too harsh but yes.
are those welts on that guy's arm?
this is pathetic. you're still punishing me for calling you out on the green urine lady?
let house do it.
i'm outta here.
this is good stuff.
yeah. i wasn't actually going to but not the greatest day at work. i used to have an office like this.
when i was a plastic surgeon. but one day i took stock of my life and … uh screw it. i had an affair with the daughter of one of my partners. they signed a non-disclosure. i signed a non-compete. and the funny thing is i wound up telling my wife anyway. you like your job?
you're lying to make me feel better.
[picking up a tool] it's amazing. gotta make it a half-inch smaller though.
i got small hands 6.5 gloves like women surgeons which are your fastest-growing market. meaning the girls would have to use two hands to hit the switch.
[entering] why is there a ladder here?
sorry i was late again. i've got a long commute from the poor house.
don't worry i'm not quitting.
bad example. i did tell her.
i'm not who i used to be. i'm scared. that's not a way to live. i want to come work for you.
you said you needed guys like me.
let me invest in that laser scalpel start-up. i got money saved. not a ton but…
yeah i know. i know it's not gonna change my life overnight. i just need to start changing it.
i'm not staying long. i'm quitting.
no.
you're not accepting my resignation?
bye.
i've been waiting 15 minutes. where's neil?
he's the ceo.
this is crazy. i'm investing with his company.
where is he?
i went to high school with him.
no.
yeah.
[enters] sorry i didn't show up in middletown. i didn't get the message.
uh i thought we were past this. i decided to stay.
i performed euripides with sock puppets. you just missed it.
not sure if i do.
i'm not sure i want to do that either.
kutner… [he nods toward lee. kutner looks.]
do you drink?
we're going to biopsy the brain stem?
epstein-barr picornaviruses malaria.
maybe there's another way.
brain computer interface… better known as bci. the goal is to get you to move that cursor with your mind. when you think up the computer records the pattern. think up enough times it eventually learns what you're thinking. so… start thinking up.
you in there? are you trying?
this is going to mean months of sleepless nights wondering if i could've done something differently. maybe it's not that i'm sick of house. it's that i'm sick of being scared out of my mind to go to work every day. sorry. [he gets up to leave. there’s a beep. he turns back.] did that just… was that you? [there’s another beep as the cursor moves up.]
have you traveled out of the country lately?
he just admitted he wasn't in st. louis in front of his wife and you think he's lying when she's not even in here?
if this is where he got sick someone else here should have symptoms.
furnace is rusty but no gas leaks.
factory foreman says they make rechargeable batteries. mostly for cell phones.
which he'd aerosolize with the broom then right into his lungs. heavy metal poisoning explains everything.
the chelation will scrub the heavy metals out of your blood. if we are right about the cause we should see some movement in about a day or so.
somebody will be here at all times to uh irrigate your eyes keep you company. hopefully it'll help make the time go quicker.
thank you… for thinking up. for helping me find you in there. man when you moved that cursor… [he smiles.]
i want to keep my job.
how about we hook the guy's brain to a computer so he can communicate?
you didn't come up with it. no one else came up with it. if i didn't re-establish communication we never would have found —
i realized that what we do here… terrifies me. and… overcoming that is the only way i can matter.
the liver's fine. his enzymes have been normal since we admitted him.
i'm going to numb up the area where we'll go in for the punch biopsy.
look. next to his fingernail.
i did. [kutner nods slightly at him.]
54-year-old woman with acute respiratory failure. no anaphylaxis lung issues or tracheal lesions. tox screen was clean for coke and amphetamines.
thirteen’s with a patient and kutner’s dog’s sick. he should be in by lunch.
i contributed. and the patient’s illness wasn’t caused by her husband unless lung cancer’s contagious.
she visited her sister in hawaii about six months ago just before her husband got sick.
no tumors no drugs no bacteria. leaves viral — varicella zoster.
the mind can heal the body. seeing his wife in distress might have actually slowed down his death.
we don’t need to. i had an idea… all by myself.
found him loitering in the lobby.
and now with your permission we’d like to try to make you better.
she can resume her vigil over her husband who started fading again.
he probably went to a comic book fest spent the night at some wonder woman’s lair. i’m sure he’ll —
charlotte.
[to eddie] you’re okay.
pulse is rapid and regular. no fluid in her lungs.
i don’t know.
killing himself also kills all other options. makes kutner an idiot. so pity yes. but guilt no.
we still have a patient. actually two. one worsening one who should be worsening.
it’s possible eddie’s body is willing itself to live.
polyserositis damages the protective covering of the tissue around the organs. the indomethacin is simply an anti-inflammatory but it should fix it.
sorry to interrupt… but i’d like to run one more test… on you.
indomethacin had no effect. she’s still in pain. rules out polyserositis. i ran a hormone panel on eddie. his prolactin’s above normal. means he’s actually improving. body chemistry changes for all sorts of reasons — stress fear… why not love? but maybe he’s going into some sort of remission/
if you had i’m sure you would have mentioned it.
i don’t buy that suicide is always a cry for help. sometimes you just don’t want help.
she doesn’t have wegener’s. kidney function’s normal. it’s not byssinosis. it’s not mitral valve stenosis. nothing fits.
ms. weakens myelin sheath compromises nerve conduction. i’m talking about charlotte the one who’s still alive.
it’s unlikely but you never know.
yeah maybe.
i think you mean it now. i think it’s much easier to mean it than to do anything about it.
chamber walls are barely moving. i’m sorry.
[on speaker from observation area] waiting for you to fix her spleen so we can biopsy it for rheumatoid arthritis.
she’s not your patient.
kutner wanted to die. charlotte doesn’t. so in a contest for my concern and interest she wins.
epiglottis spleen and now her liver which is operating at 20% and deteriorating fast.
could be amyloidosis. amyloid buildup hits the organs tissue —
heart’s still failing. the improvement was only temporary.
only why a man who embraces the rational is suddenly pursuing the irrational.
it’s too soon after your surgery.
individual donors can bypass the registry but there are a lot of other factors… blood type —
it’s not just —
this isn’t over yet.
yes.
what happened?
she wasn’t trying to look worse. she was trying to kill herself. [he holds an oxygen mask to her face.]
[voice over] she’s stable. but whatever was left of her liver is definitely shot now. and there’s no change in eddie.
it was selfless. she loves him.
we should try a partial donation from a live donor.
no diagnosis no liver. no liver no living.
we’ve already explored the usual options. shouldn’t we at least explore unusual ones?
kutner would say we should just come clean with cuddy.
i will. we’ve already had one pointless death.
your husband has a curable disease but he wants to die so he can give you his liver. are you okay with that or would you rather he take the treatment?
charlotte can you hear me? [he checks her eyes.]
she spiked a fever. lp shows her white cells through the roof. she’s infected everywhere.
just did what you failed to do convince eddie to live and let his wife die.
scleroderma inflames the tissue.
you don’t know that —
you can’t feel that much guilt without love.
tell them to turn around. charlotte’s treatment isn’t taking. we diagnosed it too late.
i’m gonna stay with charlotte.
no. it won’t. [he leaves]
he’s a single guy in his 20s. he cares about getting his hybrid waxed by girls who care about the environment.
he’s probably just faking so he can sue the cops and get a six-figure settlement.
it’s just weird. she’s brought cases before but he’s never made her run the tests.
mommy’s home. [the stand up]
how many normal test results do we need to know the patient’s a granola-filled phony?
and you know this because —
what does this have to do with chase?
it’s possible it’s not connected to a protest. ms wouldn’t show on the ct and his name’s swenson. scandinavians have an increased susceptibility to ms.
more likely it was the neck spasm.
but the bone covering might not be! if it’s osteomyelitis an infection eating away at his periosteum —
hang in there. we’re almost done.
sex.
money. [she gives him a look.] i’m gonna go way out on a limb here. foreman not a chatty cathy?
if you wanna date men good chance talking won’t be — [he looks at the x-ray] his femur’s fractured.
and he broke it lying in bed.
how can you have a broken femur without so much as a bruise?
you do realize that’s insane.
i’d rather make his cancer worse.
give him insulin-like growth factor. make any tumor or malignancy grow. grows big enough we can find it.
i know this is a tough process. at the first sign of any tumors or masses we can —
charging. clear! charging. clear!
[voice over] nothing on the echo. we drew a troponin level. no signs of myocardial ischemia. all the tests were normal.
we need to put in a cardioverter-defibrillator. it’ll keep your heart beating while we keep looking.
it means even if we figure this out you’ll have to stop protesting anywhere not near a hospital.
uh we’re about to start doing —
house i really don’t think we have time for this.
thank you.
you wanna get to your point?
need some coffee?
patient went deaf at age four. complication of meningitis.
subclavian steel syndrome. vascular defect coupled with constant arm movement could siphon blood flow from the brain.
if you’re right about nf2 his deafness may be reversible. i’ll set it up and talk to the patient.
nf2 is an extremely slow-growing cancer which makes it very treatable. if we’re right taking out the tumor means there’s a chance you’ll regain your hearing.
what’s wrong.
yeah sorry. doesn’t work like that.
imaging shows slightly elevated icp but no masses on or around the nerves. it’s not cancer.
the ventricle bowing is most likely a pre-existing anatomical anomaly not the indication of a tumor.
we can’t just drill into our patient’s brain on a hunch.
the mom’s never gonna let us touch his brain without some evidence.
patient has a fever now too.
pseudotumor cerebri?
maybe his fever is more than the post-op reaction. his girlfriend was sick a few months ago. [amber is in the background making a disgusted face over what she’s eating] maybe her flu was really epstein-barr.
kid’s dehydrated but stable. thankfully the fountain of whiz seems to have stopped for the moment.
could be systemic autoimmune disease sarcoido — this tastes like… vodka.
his urine would have been brown.
pheochromocytoma?
you still haven’t slept?
could be the thyroid.
he’s got problems everywhere. what goes everywhere?
so the clotting doesn’t start in the blood. it starts in the lungs. pulmonary embolism.
meet karamel.
and supplemental oxygen’s only gotten her saturation level to 60. lungs keep collapsing despite a chest tube.
a little.
i slipped. oh no.
her skin came off.
liver biopsy was negative for cancer but the procedure sent her heart into a-fib.
until we regulate the heart we can’t get meaningful pictures so we can’t tell…
heart’s too irregular for mri. other scans wouldn’t …
there’s only times her heart’s going to be still for our pictures and that’s when she’s dead.
no.
we restart hearts all the time.
left coronary artery also fine. we’re almost at three minutes.
right coronary artery is fine.
i don’t see anything.
it’s something. a lesion.
we have to guess. it’s all we’ve got. we can’t do a biopsy. the last time we went into her heart she had a major cardiac event.
what are you looking for?
care to share?
that is the test.
what if we put her on a heart-lung machine?
her heart can’t take that much dopamine. it’ll explode.
blood pressure is 90 over 60.
i’m just saying it’s still 90 over 60. it’s holding.
we know what house would do.
where are you going?
no it’s not. not until we come up with something that might work. it’s a shame that she might die because house has some personal crap to work through.
it might work. that’s all we’re going for. vasodilators can…
this probably won’t work.
don’t go too fast. if it clots she loses the hand.
what?
he left. [pause] you okay?
bloody tears could just mean subconjuctival hemorrhage. he sneezed too hard from a cold which caused his lack of taste. house isn’t gonna care. does “black tie optional” really mean black tie? cause i don’t wanna rent…
a glitch?
a glitch?
a glitch?
yeah. i think house’ll be interested.
alien hand syndrome.
split brain. right hemisphere controls the left and —
right brain is more aesthetically oriented. has greater facial recognition. i couldn’t have been a plastic surgeon without it.
no.
it says we’re making it up as we go along which i find freeing. wow i haven’t been in a bathroom this size since my dorm in med school. [he looks up] is that fungus?
what do you think of this ‘glitch’ with chase and cameron’s wedding?
i hear the sperm is very good today. i mean the salmon.
no other tables.
did you know that male fruit flies have toxic chemicals in their seminal fluid that inhibit the sperm of other males. [chase picks up his tray and leaves.]
well obviously it wasn’t the fungus.
this is so cool.
that’s also the side that was wrong. right brain's advantage is that it isn’t logical. doesn’t choose which details to look at. makes connections you could never see. you owe your insight to the “mute loser.”
what? if it doesn’t like an ultrasound wand how’s it going to react to a needle?
so your left hand would rather play air guitar than give me a hard time?
bp and o2 sats are dropping!
so much for sarcoidosis.
the heart’s fine. we wanted to test for factor v leiden protein c protein s but the hand got tired of cooperating. we finally knocked him out.
where are you going?
if you have pancreatic cancer —
you walk out of here —
you’re not going anywhere unless you wanna go naked. [scott grabs his left hand as it starts taking off his shirt.] your right brain knows you need to stay.
[enters] patient’s girlfriend left him now he wants to leave us.
his room is this way.
i don’t know if his girlfriend’s —
duct of wirsung‘s slightly enlarged but within normal parameters.
no masses in body or tail segments.
hasn’t gotten us anything though. scan’s clean. it’s not pancreatic cancer.
yes but if you want a diagnosis backed by actual evidence we should probably look at other cancers.
lymphoma —
right brain left brain issues?
or one of him. clot in his brain could kill one of them without affecting the other.
would have fried his kidneys too. what about graves?
deodorant shouldn’t… how often do you use it?
i’ll check the ingredients from the manufacturer.
somebody’s grateful.
the deodorant has a high proportion of propylene glycol. same stuff made a kid in singapore develop a heart condition and get this seizures. our patient may never have needed split-brain surgery.
