let the record show that we are officially convening a disciplinary hearing regarding the events of february 3 2012 in patient room 209. dr. house this recording will be transcribed and published along with all supporting documentation and rulings. do you have any questions before we get started?
i'm walter cofield chief of neurology mercy hospital. i'll be deciding your fate today.
this hearing isn't about me dr. house. i know you'd like to make it about me because then it wouldn't be about you.
interesting but not relevant. the facts of this case on the other hand<U+0097>
if i just consider the file the facts aren't in your favor. the facts say you should be suspended which from what i understand would mean a revocation of your parole.
what are you doing?
those are vicodin? did you have surgery recently?
were you taking vicodin during this case?
and when bad things happen we should figure out what went wrong so we can learn from it and correct it.
and then what happened?
house actually presented the case in that way or are you just trying to make him look bad?
could be your not-so-subtle way of implying this was house's fault. [she rolls her eyes.] given what's happened it's understandable that your opinion would color your testimony but i just want to know what you said what you did and what you were thinking at the time.
just tell me your initial theory.
but that's not the idea house went with.
and what about your idea?
[slight laugh] no i meant what was it?
and why did house think that was stupid?
[looks at patient file] the patient had low opening pressure on his lp.
are you intentionally trying to get me to dislike you?
you're testifying for the record that you actually used the phrasing unsquint your eyes? it's not the place to exorcise your guilt just b<U+0097>
mm-hmm. and how did these orange smudges get on the patient files?
might be if these were actually cheetos stains. what are they?
so this was a team-building exercise?
that's what he implied.
as opposed to being right? [pause] so you treated with steroids. and then what happened?
what explosion?
why was it not already in the patient history?
but i'm assuming dr. house spoke to the wife.
does dr. house not attach importance to patient histories?
sounds like a very diplomatic way of saying he's lazy.
okay. say you're right. if you had actually been in the room questioning the patient you could read body language you could ask follow-up questions warn him of the costs of lying to you.
can you dispute the possibility that had you visited the patient sooner maybe talked to the wife been directed to one of the students that this case might have ended very differently?
your patient was doubled over in pain and coughing up blood and you found that interesting?
it's interesting.
i wouldn't mind a couple more details.
you skipped over the actual ddx and now you're averting your eyes. i'm growing more and more curious by the moment.
he he had on a what?
mm-hmm.
uh-huh.
so you busted out the sulfur dioxide stink bomb?
no. it was manipulation. you were pressuring your team into coming up with unsafe medical ideas just to get out of that room.
and everyone else just went along with this?
and those were your exact words?
you thought it was insane and yet you let it happen.
if you disagree with dr. house on patient safety doctor it is your duty to speak up. otherwise you are equally to blame.
and you failed.
you did not tell me you were involved in this case when you asked me to do this.
if signing off on everything house does is a pattern it affects the way house behaves it affects the way house's team reacts to the way house behaves.
getting house out of prison is the biggest decision you've made as dean of medicine right? and if he's suspended as a result of this hearing he violates his parole and he goes back. and that probably leaves you as former dean of medicine.
you didn't choose me to oversee this because you thought i could be objective. you chose me because you thought i'd have your back and i'd think twice about making a decision that would get you fired. [pause] eric. i'm sorry. but if your get-house-out-of-jail-free experiment blows up in your face it's not my job to get you out of it.
after you'd administered the heparin i see there was a discharge order on the chart and yet the patient never left.
reasonable theory supported by the evidence.
what'd you think?
how does dr. house handle it when three smart doctors come up with three different but equally valid ideas?
are you trying to make this easy for me? by your own admission if you give the patient steroids two of the three outcomes are gonna make him worse.
in light of what happened you still think it was the perfect diagnostic moment?
i know this is hard but please tell me exactly what happened next.
so your position is that your team's disobedience caused this?
you said you didn't anticipate their defiance. you implied that all would have been fine otherwise. so who do you blame dr. adams or dr. chase? or both?
so who do you blame dr. house?
please continue.
and that's what you took away from this situation?
your colleague was stabbed. are you telling me you didn't care?
so he just walked out?
speaks to a certain callousness on dr. house's part don't you think?
hmm. but you agree that empathy is a useful quality for doctors?
your friend got stabbed. he may die from those wounds. if you had been in that room maybe that could have been you.
implicitly you just said that chase was at fault.
dr. chase? robert?
i'm walter cofield. i'm a neurologist over at
good. [pause] think you're up for answering a couple questions?
i'm smiling because for the last 12 hours i've been picturing you with orange hair.
were you angry with dr. house?
so i've heard. that doesn't mean you couldn't get angry. might actually contribute to that reaction.
who do you think was at fault for what happened to you dr. chase?
you're a smart doctor. you know what happened here better than anyone and you've worked with dr. house longer than anyone. and i suspect that you've spent every minute since this has happened trying to answer that very question.
in the middle of a procedure that could basically save your life house is actually trying to drag people away? how do you work with a guy like that?
so your testimony is that dr. house's complete lack of concern is evidence of his deep concern? [chase nods slightly. cofield shifts and considers this.] did you just do that?
wiggle your toes.
do you feel that? [chase nods several times.] congratulations. it was the clot. short occlusion time of the artery when the swelling goes down you should gain back at least some of the function. [chase's head drops back on the pillows and he breathes deeply.] one more thing. sorry. you knew that your patient was at risk for a psychotic break when you brought a scalpel within his reach. why did you ignore that risk?
i thought so. [he picks up the recorder and puts it in his pocket.]
you brazenly defied your boss. now that happened either because dr. house has established that that's okay in his world or his prank war distracted you or house makes medicine a game and you just wanted to beat him. whatever the reason it boils down to the fact that you may never walk again because house created an atmosphere that promotes recklessness.
this will be our last round of questions. i've spoken with dr. chase. you know he regained movement.
are you really this indifferent to the fact that dr. chase is hurt?
why don't you go tell the guy you're sorry
it's not an admission of guilt. he's your friend and he's not well.
coworker whom you've known for almost ten years who nearly died and who's still scared he may not walk.
just trying to understand you. why a man in your position with your abilities is incapable of shaking the impulse to act like an ass.
put the vicodin away dr. house.
[brushing vicodin off his papers] is that supposed to be funny?
we're not done here.
this case is a fiasco. didn't sleep last night. [pause] dr. house is obviously brilliant
but dr. house is also a fiasco. if i were to exonerate him condone his completely reckless immature almost misanthropic behavior i would essentially be sending a message to all the other doctors in this hospital that it's okay to act that way and it is<U+0097>
we're in the middle of something.
as i was saying dr. house's process is dangerous inappropriate. but he is effective. i've decided that i would be doing this hospital a disservice if i did anything to change that process. [house stares at him.] congratulations dr. house. this unfortunate stabbing incident is officially nobody's fault.
excuse me?
