what did you do to piss cuddy off?
house you're stealing from a woman in a coma.
yeah? how about you?
because she's happy?
house that's<U+0097>
(he follows house as he walks down the hall) i was going to say normal.
in an adult relationship.
there's... you're both... wait.
house you don't actually think she'd dump you because you what don't do yoga? listen to the b-52s?
so instead of enjoying the honeymoon phase you've decided to skip it entirely.
right. or you could just talk to her about it.
oh yeah. you're not gonna believe who just checked into the e.r.
what's that?
yeah. stop. it can't be done.
did you get this before or after your date with cuddy?
huh. this is actually good house. (he walks around to the front of the desk) she's committing crimes. what does that tell you?
true. a horrible influence she's reaching out to. she's looking for ways to connect. sure they're self-destructive juvenile and insane (sitting down) but so are you. you do have something in common. you're both trying to find things you have in common.
(entering the room) whatever he has you doing stop.
he's just trying to read a book the latest jack cannon: boy detective.
does cuddy know you're using the mri for this?
there are actual patients waiting to use this machine.
i have a very bad feeling about this.
(to sam) hey! watch it!
my parents never let me drive one of these!
oh my god! oh!
oh!
that's just the pain talking.
how are things going with cuddy?
are you sleeping over there yet?
whose idea was that?
okay taking it slow. that could work. you are spending time with the kid?
house she's a toddler.
oh you think you were the scintillating wit at two and a half?
oh yeah things are definitely going great.
you really like these or are you just avoiding a touchy conversation?
they're identical! do you even want my input?
then why did you invite me?
i was hoping you'd interrupt my cooking to ask about handymen. do go on.
ah yes the age-old hooker massage conundrum. cuddy might have mentioned something about it. let's say you're right. completely right about everything. give in anyway.
right you're the rosa parks of hooker massages.
putting up with irrationality is the foundation for every relationship. i agree with sam when she's calling her father a monster. i agree with her when she's calling him a saint. and in exchange i get to have sex with her. and i'm sure she has similar tradeoffs with me. relationships are hard. you have to make sacrifices. so sacrifice being crazy. go get her a gift and apologize.
which clearly you have misunderstood based on how quickly you agreed.
oh [he turns to save the food.]
you told me you gave them your credit card...
[follows house to the door] ohhh no you don't.
[shocked] you're not gonna leave the kid?
[tries to get past house to the door] and unlike you i'm not having sex with cuddy so i actually can leave. [house parries and they end up pressed against the door.]
you're not gonna leave a two-year-old unattended.
better get back in there. kid's all alone. [they walk down cuddy's front yard towards the street.]
not my problem.
objectively since i never accepted this responsibility it kind of isn't. [he opens his car door]
i'm leaving.
[he turns his engine off and gets out of the car] fine. you're right. [he walks up to house] you know what i can do? i can go in there and call a babysitting service for 15 bucks an hour then call cuddy and tell her who's watching her kid and why.
[he and house still frozen] ...we were gone two minutes.
come on sweetie. open. [rachel continues chewing. wilson begins miming an opening mouth with his hand] bah-bah-bah-bah-bah-bah. bah bah bah!
[awkward baby-voice] open... [rachel opens her mouth and wilson attempts to find whatever she was eating. she bites.] ow! [he finally retrieves a quarter. house and wilson look annoyed and frightened.]
[perusing the restaurant menu] okay... you ordered the moo shoo pork... and the orange cashew chicken right?
[exasperatedly] that's because it's a fridge magnet! unless she swallowed a canadian dime it's not magnetic.
absolutely. [pause] unless it gets stuck in her intestine and causes a blockage which could kill her.
if you don't tell cuddy i will go out there and tell her myself!
[erratic gestures] shh! shh shh shh shh! tell her! [he leaves. house glaces irresolutely from the window to rachel's crib then heads into the hall.]
[quietly] all right she's in her office. move fast.
[nervously] if rachel wakes up she's gonna tell cuddy everything.
medusa at 6:00! [they begin to run] don't look back. move move! [cuddy unsuspecting enters the clinic.]
[awkwardly] hello. [they stare uncomfortably at each other for a long moment.]
[puts his outspread hands up to his temples] hello... i'm the friendly moose who lives outside your bedroom. [rachel looks upset and pulls her shirt up over her eyes.]
[rolls his eyes] hand me the gel.
[to rachel] ...okay.
[looking at the ultrasound monitor] house come take a look at this.
[points at the screen] just past the ileocecal valve.
it's a dime!
yeah with fdr's face on it.
house the thing is perfectly round.
[baby voice] that's because i'm the tickle monster.
gonna tickle you even more! [to house] look at<U+0096>look at that.
great just give her an unnecessary dose of radiation. it's a dime!
[from inside the room] house i need you back in here! [taub looks at house pleadingly]
that... is a dime.
[to rachel] sounds to me like someone's going to get some yummy chocolate. [he imitates a chewing motion with his hand and rachel does the same.]
turns out toilets are handy in this situation. and i felt relatively sure that cuddy wouldn't come in.
seriously? this must be a terrible place to have s<U+0097> [he cuts himself off remembering rachel's presence. and gestures awkwardly.]
scope a two-year-old? it's dangerous.
cuddy will be home from work in six hours. [sarcastically] but no big deal. i'll just scream look over there! while you quickly shove a scope up her daughter's rectum.
sure. that won't raise any suspicions.
why?
[digging in rachel's diaper with a pencil while on the phone with house] third poop in the last half-hour. still nothing.
you brought food? this is a medical procedure not a dinner date!
you ordered extra pancakes?? how much did they cost? [they dive for the menu.] where<U+0097>
so that means the total on the last bill was<U+0097>
[together] $18.42.
...yeah. [he sinks down on the couch.] so the image that we saw on the ultrasound<U+0097>
[nods; there is a long pause]... give me some dumplings? [house does.]
i think you probably already know the answer.
you don't understand why a woman might be upset because her boyfriend lied to her?
that's not how relationships work.
does the lie guarantee he'll live?
you got two choices: to be honest and face the medical consequences or lie and face the personal consequences.
i had a flat tire. your patient has cancer?
i hit a piece of rebar near a construction site.
in three weeks? it's highly unlikely.
but there is one between here and my dry cleaner. it could be a misdiagnosis or it could be spontaneous remission. but why would i lie about this?
i was buying an engagement ring. (smiling) i'm gonna propose to sam at the wedding.
i assume you haven't apologized to cuddy yet. your stupidity demands equal time.
(pausing for a split second) pretend to apologize.
there's a lovely symmetry to it. the lie got you into it. a lie gets you out of it.
yeah that must have been what i meant.
(from inside his office) i'm busy!
i really am busy.
another lie?
maybe you hadn't heard. i'm kind of busy.
sudoku. what do you think? i'm the head of oncology at a major hospital.
sam's boss is doing a clinical review of all of her files and she just wanted to make sure everything was in order before he starts on monday.
if i don't help her she can't go to the wedding and we fell in love at her cousin's wedding which is why i want to propose to her at a wedding. and now you have 60 seconds to berate me for that and for helping my girlfriend with her homework.
(responding in character as miss moneypenny) cummerbund? very foolish mr. bond.
the daughter's case checks out. stereotactic biopsy confirmed stage iv glioblastoma multiforme. doesn't respond to chemo but they gave it to her anyway as a hail mary and just got lucky.
sometimes there is no explanation. and i'm just fine with that.
i need that file that chair and that desk.
sensitivities vary.
(nodding) yeah. that's what i thought. (he pauses sighs and sits down in his chair) i asked her point blank about this. she said the dosages were accurate and that she had done nothing wrong.
no. no i was thinking i mean if those two even have the slightest chance
i've come to realize that i love you even more than i thought i did. (wilson opens the ring box) sam will you marry me again?
i have a suggestion.
everything you've done. your work. your your sense of morality. the five cases. i not only agree with what you did. i admire it.
i know. and i get it.
i believe that you are a wonderful person.
no sam i'm listen i'm on your side.
what? sam. sam don't do this
ignore him. he just got an idea.
sam?
we had a fight. we had one fight. and i admitted i was wrong. we can talk about it. we can get over it.
i never lied to you about anything.
i maybe we could talk to a counselor. you said that helped after our divorce.
and i haven't? this is my fault?
you're quitting sam. you're quitting again. so i guess you haven't changed that much.
sam left me.
too soon. i'm still in love with her.
do you have a drink? or drinks?
(looking up at house) does she know you're here?
(standing up and looking at house) good for you.
good for you.
(handing the patient a prescription) so call me in a week if it still itches.
will do.
her granddaughter i think. early stages of dementia. what's the consult?
i can't tonight.
yes because of my senile patient's granddaughter. you caught me. i'm busy! (wilson leaves)
oh i'm so surprised you broke into my apartment without telling me. what is this?
(taking off his coat and looking at the box) that had better not be what i think it is.
house
(picking up the cat) okay fine. i got a cat. release the kraken.
don't you think you're completely overreacting?
um because i knew you would completely overreact.
look i didn't name her. my neighbor did. she died and i felt bad. sarah would have been destroyed at the shelter.
i'm keeping her.
no that's not gonna work. i have a haircut at 4 o'clock. i'll be in the offi<U+0097>(he sneezes) i'll be in the office in about 20 minutes. (he sneezes again) yeah okay.
(pointing at house) you planted something in my apartment to make me think i'm allergic to sarah.
i'm not paranoid. i'm allergic to ragweed and dandelion. i'm not allergic to cats. you're trying to gaslight me.
you do see the hypocrisy in all this don't you? until recently your lifestyle of choice was self-exile.
i'd rather not.
okay. (trying to participate) um too armpit fatty.
i actually know her. she's the new barista at my coffee shop. she's getting her masters in finance.
total moron as a barista though. every drink i order ends up with
okay.
she said my coffee is not the only thing she'd like to put whipped cream on.
ohh!
ohh!
(startled yet again) aah!
(relaxing) are they poisoned?
it's a very nice gesture but it's still in the apartment.
all right. first of all all real. second a true connoisseur of the dark arts of (he stops lying) i flaked. i walked her to her car and said good night. i will get back into it i <U+0097> you just need to give me a little more time.
fine.
you have nice skin.
sorry. just thought it would be rude not to comment.
right. [pause] are you sucking in your stomach?
ultrasound isn't definitive. we should run other tests before<U+0097>
there's a mass in your kidney.
i'll get it.
rachel cuddy you were supposed to be home half an hour ago.
what's the problem officer?
pie-eating contest.
okay. you've been worried that your relationship is getting in the way of your diagnoses you're protecting your patient. either that or you're an ass.
the chances of cuddy having renal cell carcinoma<U+0097>
you know what's good for that? practice. doing it <U+0097> i don't know <U+0097> once?
there's no proof she's being stalked by ninja squirrels either but if she's scared of them as her boyfriend it's your job to figure out how to help her feel better.
what are you doing?
i was going to send chase to tell you what the obvious right thing to do here is but then i realized if you were too stupid to know how stupid that was you might miss the irony. you have to be with her.
she doesn't sleep with chase.
house i'm not gonna tell you a third time. do not screw this up. because i really don't wanna clean up the mess. [he leaves.]
delivery for you mrs. house. happy 29th birthday.
got your scans back from today.
no. [he looks up from his computer for a moment then returns to work.]
no.
yes. i'm worried. but this isn't about house. it's about cuddy. she's the one who could be dying and he's trying to make this about himself. i'm not playing.
she still believes he'll show up. he'll either get over himself and be who she needs him to be or he won't. [he goes back to typing.]
okay. [following house into the hotel room and closing the door]
she did.
she told me you had taken a vicodin.
but you're fine?
because you cleared out your bank account checked into a hotel and started back on vicodin?
until that happens are you sure vicodin is the
you've been able to handle the pain.
not physically worse.
so you don't want to just avoid the issue. you want to avoid avoiding the issue. sorry.
okay. this might not be such a bad idea.
take some time for yourself. relax.
maybe talk to someone?
[turns his head to look at house] really?
okay. that's great. [pause] i meant like a counselor.
but you meant a hooker.
you knew he was an addict before you got involved.
you knew he was an ass
you told him you did not want him to change.
you don't know that. you thought you were gonna die. do you really think that was the right time to make this kind of decision?
he thought you were gonna die. nobody knows the right way to react in that situation. just give him another chance. he deserves it.
well he's back on vicodin. so you might want to keep an eye on his new patient.
[entering] he's not getting you a gun.
you were bored. you must have spent about two days setting up a fake murder and you were bored.
you're not. and i'm worried you might do something even stupider. why don't you move back in with me? at least until you get back on track.
i'm trying to be a friend.
either way. if you prefer
house we haven't even started talking about this except to establish the fact that you are fine which clearly you aren't.
no. we are gonna talk about this and we're gonna deal with this.
you're gonna have to talk to him eventually. he needs you.
he needs you in his life. even if you're not sleeping with him he needs you. [he stops himself from crying.] without you
it's understandable.
you're scared because nothing excites you. fun doesn't excite you. puzzles don't excite you. what's left? and i was saying you're right. you're upset. you're depressed. everything's gonna taste a little worse right now but it'll pass.
noooooooooooooo!
what the hell are you doing?
congratulations on your engagement.
you're trying to screw with cuddy.
and what you're openly mocking marriage trying to prove it means nothing?
i'd love to keep guessing but i've got people with tumors waiting. why do you want us to think that you're getting married?
so you're just doing some random stranger a favor? it's illegal. people go to jail for that pay huge fines.
and if she doesn't see it this way?
you two spent months trying to figure out a way to date and not have it affect your working relationship. now you need to do the same thing for not dating.
this is serious. did you know that she's
so you're just trying to punish her? she feels bad and your only goal is to take advantage?
you're a lot of things house but you've never been a sadist. you're pummeling an opponent who isn't fighting back.
he's gone too far. he's taking up six handicapped spaces with a monster truck.
and the chapel he's turned the chapel into his own personal catering hall.
appeasement is never the answer in the face of naked aggression. it won't be long before his tanks are rolling down your champs-elysees.
you're the first boss he's ever had who could handle him. before you he was either fired or buried under a mountain of malpractice suits. he needs someone to say no. he needs someone he'll listen to when they say no. if you really care about house you'll stop feeling sorry for him and get out there and start kicking him where he needs kicking.
just say the word and we will climb out that window right now.
you see? things are getting back to normal.
oh!
kendall pearson. oncology rounds. everyone's talking about it. oh. [wh winces and reaches behind himself.]
yeah my back's acting up.
i would keep trying to convince her to have the surgery.
i would just keep<U+0097> [winces] keep <U+0097> keep trying.
oh thank god. it's pecked through one pair of my loafers.
that's all you can do.
disgusting beasts. i don't know why i ever agreed to this bet.
and lose $20? listen house was in the exact same situation kendall's in. he needed surgery but he didn't want it. once he was in medically-induced coma his girlfriend signed the consent form as his proxy. they went ahead with the surgery against his will. probably saved his life.
depends on who you ask.
no! no!
[loudly and clearly] that bird belongs to dr. gregory house.
physically yes. emotionally it was a long night. next week: ferrets?
[loudly and triumphantly] 50 bucks! [normal voice] pay up.
let's go. let's go. [again wiggling his fingers for the money]
he touched him enough to put him on the canvas and the official counted him out which means you officially owe me 50 bucks. [as soon as he says the amount the dance starts again. wilson is really enjoying this win.]
okay here's what i saw. you lost and i won.
prove it. prove it or pay up. you got one day. and don't make me send my boys out looking for you. [he turns toward the door stops and puts up a warning finger which he points at various members of the team. quietly] what? all right. [he leaves.]
just because he wasn't hit in the face<U+0097>
the bet was on who would win not who would live the longest.
you know that just because i was right about this one fighter doesn't make you any less of a man?
then as i said earlier prove it. and one possibly photoshopped cell phone pic does not a diagnosis make.
if he's ignoring you it's because he trusts you.
no it's not but he does.
i think this is good for him.
house only doing what house wants is the only way he can function. since the breakup he's been seeking out crazier and crazier things to do because they're crazy. this is <U+0097> well it's not crazy.
by house standards it's dull. this he's doing just because he's interested. i think house getting back to doing stupid house stuff for stupid house reasons is the best thing that could happen to him.
[loudly through the closed door] experimental drugs?
well unless you're going to do your job it can wait.
i'll give you a lift.
hmm. why are you off them?
why were you on them?
you think fixing your leg will fix your life.
you think all your problems are your leg.
i think you want everything to be physical tangible simple. you want unhappiness to have a cure. [house picks up his jacket which he had put on the couch.] house you obviously<U+0097>
you were wrong. it's not the end of the world.
[after a pause and a deep breath] you have a problem. i think if you seriously look at everything that<U+0097>
okay look this isn't<U+0097>[house raises his cane and turns toward the ordinary people poster. wilson jumps up to stop him.] okay! okay! okay! okay! [house stands back but keeps his cane ready. he looks pissed.] no i don't. [he gestures locking his mouth and throwing away the key.] just get out of here. go home. we'll talk later. someplace without any of my stuff.
he was actually sick?
wow. fascinating. completely explains exactly how he lost.
no i'm not. well done house. you might have saved that guy. given him his life back.
what happened to your eye? you okay?
(sitting in an easy chair beside the bed) you're lucky.
you hoping for someone else?
you've got mail.
(reading the letter) i hope your leg feels better and i hope we can be friends again soon you bloody scallywag.
that's a good sign.
(coming around to house's side of the bed) of course you are.
you're an ass.
come on. listen to me. you can't keep going like this. something has to change.
yeah he won't be there.
when you find him you're gonna arrest him?
knowing him he'll be in a bar. he'll find one that matches how he feels inside. it'll be the most dark depressing hole you can find in new jersey.
you're forging my name on prescriptions again.
20 minutes ago i put a notice out to all local pharmacies to require verbal authorization before filling my prescriptions.
i've been dealing with this for years. but it's over <U+0097> your liver your hearing never mind the fact that each scrip you write is a separate felony. you will serve time so could i.
[picking up a pill bottle from the bed table] you filled this three days ago. now it's almost half gone.
it's a month supply. the amount you're taking has nothing to do with physical pain.
so you can only handle not self-destructing by being self-destructive?
i don't know house but i'm worried about you. i don't know how many times i can watch you cut off pieces of yourself. now it's the i.c.u. next time it'll be the morgue. you're miserable. and you're angry. and i want you to actually deal with that and not just try to medicate the issue away.
what are you doing?
[through the door] house i can hear your phone ringing.
you alright? you go to lunch with cuddy?
how was it?
why don't we get a drink? we could go to the sawmill.
you think she's going to have an emergency tangle?
want me to come?
what just happened?
what just happened?
house what are you mad about? just let it out. you'll feel better.
aah!
