what's house gonna do?
here i thought it was just the pants. uh diabetic neuropathy?
that's a good idea.
i'm short. he's black. you're gay-ish.
crps isn't that well understood but <U+0096>
you should check the rate of patient error.
when you're done marking your territory... test results. surprise surprise. marcus webly was wrong.
stimulating at 100 hertz. guess you found him a little more persuasive than two of us <U+0096> probably the pants.
heart rate's 140 climbing.
(placing an oxygen mask over vince's mouth) deep breaths.
analysis of the fluid from vince's lungs shows the lung problem is really a heart problem. he's got a thickened left ventricle.
not without joint pain.
cocaine use explains the symptoms.
i guess you're not in a hurry to get back to the office.
i'm not trying to avoid my boyfriend. i'm a lizard not an idiot. you've been in a crappy mood since we got in the car.
unlike you i didn't expect anything different.
so even the score. go home tonight put on some heels and break him like a pony. you'll feel much better. (both thirteen and her avatar give him a look) what?
(paying more attention to the game now) wow that's one big-ass bird.
get them off me!
little help.
your partner said you studied birds to improve the game animation. did you touch them?
yes we get it. she's very very pretty.
his erection persisted even with medication. we had to put in a surgical shunt just to drain the blood.
could be guillain barre.
(laughing) i'm sorry. i just realized... joint pain and joint pain. honest i wasn't laughing because of the obvious tension between the two of you. erection points to a circulatory problem. i'm with foreman.
his lymph nodes blew up. he's been treated for thrombocytosis but there's been no change.
swollen lymph nodes rule out thrombocytosis. (looking at his cell phone) how did so many people get my personal email?
no. no hypercalcemia no muscle spasms or incontinence.
biopsy showed deposits in the renal endothelium consistent with amyloidosis.
already done. this may not be the best time for this... but i quit. i got an offer to join a friend's surgical practice.
i put out some feelers when i found out house wasn't coming back.
yes. that was incredibly altruistic of you. it's nothing personal. actually i think you're doing pretty well. but i came here to work with house.
i leave this office by 6:00 every day i have my weekends again i recognize my wife again.
[one corner of his mouth twitches.] maybe you're right. the only link between eye and muscle is the brain. [he gets up and grabs his jacket. he walks with house to the door.] tumor seizure...
mr. [reading from a clipboard] takayama.
if you'll excuse me i've got a real patient. mister... hitler. really.
who's next?
someone with zero chance of hiring me back. [to house] i told you. i'm content at home and at work.
at bridge. my wife and i play a lot of bridge.
i gave you a theory. just like i'd help a guy who needs a heimlich in a restaurant. and then i shut the door behind you.
and you're an addiction addict. right now your drug of choice is your old team and like any addict you're trying to solve some other problem and it's not gonna work. if you'll excuse me i have a <U+0096>
yes. i do nose jobs. just like the guy who came here after a car crash couldn't even breathe through his... [he has an idea. house waits for it.] antibiotics wouldn't work if his sinuses were infected and clogged. if there was a pocket of bacteria his blood vessels couldn't reach. you surgically drain his sinuses the drugs will work.
[shouting after him] not coming back.
the risks are uh they're really minimal. we'll do a series of painless injections and <U+0096> [the fax machine beeps] excuse me. [he removes the paper from the fax and drops it in the trash.] the whole thing can be done as an outpatient.
[not really listening] absolutely.
no. what? i'm sorry. hang on a second.
it's me and thirteen. stop the ablation.
the worms weren't hurting him. they were helping him. he has extraintestinal crohn's. he got it from being raised in a too clean too overprotective of an environment.
the worms were keeping the crohn's in check teaching his immune system what it should've learned from eating dirt growing up.
and some helminths.
i want to be on the team.
thanks for the sarcasm. i reorganized my life to spend more time with her but apparently i don't love her as much as i thought.
hyperbilirubinemia?
what about sickle cell?
whites can get it.
not to me. what if he had a history of <U+0096>
you're sure everything was fine before? given your educational background you'd think you could at least find a job with a medical plan.
it's not that it's just <U+0096> i want to make sure we have all the information we should.
or hiding a history of mental illness?
it's too hard to think.
didn't you think there was something weird about that guy?
that's my point. guys with iqs off the chart are usually completely... abnormal.
life's too short to worry about money.
she's happy to cut back on some things... like sex. why'd you come back?
that means ttp.
this is an easy thing. and house doesn't take cases that are easy which means it's not ttp and he wants to see how long it takes us to catch up to him.
schistocytes suggest ttp.
so that means we have to give him a splenectomy.
so you do really think he has ttp? you're not just testing us.
so why did you really take this case?
cns vasculitis. explains ataxia and anemia maybe the stroke.
i'm sure he's got a perfectly logical explanation.
[to thirteen] see? completely reasonable. [to house] acquired pancytopenia.
smartest guy in the world and this is the best he can do.
[checking the refrigerator] soda processed cheese marshmallow spread. nothing in here is capable of going bad.
you want to come over for thanksgiving dinner?
i just never thought of it. but now that we're both on the team...
is that a bad reason?
mice. leptospirosis could explain the ataxia and the anemia. [he picks up droppings with a tweezers and drops them in a container.]
you have someone to talk to?
who?
good 'cause kutner never used to come over for dinner.
actually there is. he's got sketches of atomic structure. this one's full of math proofs.
this isn't some homework assignment his parents forced on him. this is passion. why would he want to stop doing this?
but we found vodka stashed away in his place.
talk to him. he's a pedestrian guy.
why us?
yes you just hide vodka around the house for fun.
[checking the ultrasound and taking the sample] there we go.
thanks. but i'm hoping i can still get out of here to catch the tail end of dinner with my wife.
no cirrhosis no scarring no infection.
elevated albumen: 7.2.
everything else is fine.
unless it's not his liver that's elevating his albumen it's his kidneys.
ischemic encephalopathy.
patient's liver's fine. it's his kidneys that are shot. and where the hell is house?
no edema. [to chase] i trust you had a wonderful thanksgiving?
you got drunk alone?
cough could mean goodpasture syndrome. affects kidneys and lungs.
and since we don't disagree you can save your fight for another case.
we have to talk about this.
i know it's a big pay cut but i'll always have the chance to make money. i won't always have the chance to do this job.
so it's that i didn't consult you before i took the job?
so then... can you give me the first letter?
that's what this is about? you think i'm a wuss?
don't.
lupus.
this probably cost me my marriage so it better be awesome.
you're killing him?
okay that is amazing.
which one?
robotripping. how's she feel about that?
einstein is giving himself a lobotomy and you're cool with that?
hold that pose. [he whips out a camera and takes a picture of house.] i'll start with t-shirts and mugs and see how it goes.
home early.
just one right hook.
you were right. i told him we need to lay down some ground rules got a little heated.
everything's fine.
(looking up at wilson as he hurries by) it wasn't the tennis.
performing his ritual hiding from cuddy to avoid getting a new case dance. it's sort of a jazz-fusion type of thing.
(reading the file) subdural hematoma would explain--
fungal infection would explain his breathing problem but not his unable to move his arm problem.
intraepidermal superficial bullae. could be pemphigus.
either way he's dead. (house enters the lab) we can't stop the oozing.
in only 24 hours?
this guy strained his back three years ago. and that's it. all the rest of these pages are blank.
you think this guy's just gonna hand over a briefcase full of illegal drugs because you ask nicely?
you're gonna hear a series of clicks and hisses. sensors measure electronic activity to your auditory nerve.
an hour maybe an hour and a half. or you could walk away with a tumor in your ear.
guy's probably late to a stabbing.
thirteen's middle name is beauregard? [looks at monitor] wave three latency is 3.8.
looks real to me.
i make that much money. [he turns to give the paper back to foreman and sees his face.] and... apparently you don't.
pupils are constricted. pulse is bounding!
gotta be his blood pressure. we need to get it down before he strokes out!
we put the patient on vasodilators got his hypertension under control.
no chest pain shortness of breath. brain aneurysm secondary to polycystic kidney disease?
not that he's worried <U+0096> keeps asking me when he can leave.
and you pretended to agree just so we'd take him out of his room so you could plant the bug.
if we're going with toxic exposure we should just start testing for the most likely suspects.
these tests take time. there are a lot of possibilities.
if you're worried about all the poor school children going without their drugs i'm sure someone <U+0096>
i'll get the forms.
you talk to cuddy?
so uh what are you gonna do now?
oh.
nothing. that's what i would do. but i'm a coward.
we gave him antipyretics and soft steroids to reduce the fever and prevent organ damage. he's no longer delirious.
he had a meeting with cuddy.
uh yeah.
i hit bone. his old back injury must have flattened out his discs. sorry but i've got to try this again. you okay?
because some of those substances are against the law.
i'm in.
it's normal.
how'd it go with cuddy?
wow. are you really gonna take the job?
and environmental is back at the top of our list of suspects. we're trying to narrow down the possibilities.
give him a break. knowing this guy's an undercover cop doesn't get us any closer to curing him.
bad guy cool; good guy moron?
but what kind of environmentals? toxins parasites allergens.
so far nothing. carpet paint insulation. even the gross food in the fridge. everything's coming up clean.
we have to tell him.
if begging worked he would have a raise and we wouldn't be screwed.
what about adding ipratropium? that might <U+0096>
i hate to push past the irony but our patient's bleeding into his lungs and we've got nothing.
that'd be consistent with his other symptoms: the vertigo the fever.
one bleed to four in less than 12 hours? that seems like an uptick to me.
we were screwing with foreman trying to make him think he made less than we did. obviously things got out of control.
is there any other option?
if i ask why were in wilson's office is there any chance i'll get a straight answer?
14-year-old boy joint pain and excess hair growth.
four for four.
we did find an arrhythmia. but it's not from your arteries. they're clean.
(coming back into the room with two security officers) get him out of here.
we'll keep an eye out. he's not getting back into the hospital.
who are you hiding from?
he might have. how did you know that?
even if the tests are positive you don't have to worry.
at this stage it's probably not communicable.
i don't know.
(reading the lab report that house put down) actually he backed you up because of the new b.u.n. creatinine numbers. brittle bones were from kidney failure.
oh. sorry. (to thirteen) that was our secret right? (he leaves)
primary hepatic fibrosis?
not yet. says he won't abandon her while she's sick. she have any other family members?
it's not porn. it's our new patient.
and he had a full psych evaluation. he's not crazy.
do you feel any pain that's deep and persistent not just muscles or joints?
it might not be just football. we're gonna test for damage to your pituitary. if there is it could create excess hormones which could be causing your pain. it would also explain your rage attack.
i don't want to get ahead of ourselves and start promising deadlines.
if we do find something wrong we can go in through the nose and repair the damage <U+0096> nothing too invasive. you'll need a couple days of recovery and then we can have you back by game time.
[with heartfelt insincerity] you were right about the steroids. you're a genius.
well somehow your gnrh got elevated. this will help get it back down.
tachycardia. lay back down daryl.
it's not steroids. [yelling for a nurse] i need some adenosine! and get that crash cart over here!
we spent all night used all the fancy machines. patient's heart looks fine.
i remember that.
i know.
raynaud's phenomenon <U+0096> vasospasms cut off the blood supply to his fingers. could be early onset rheumatoid arthritis.
requesting permission to share my idea without being belittled in front of your new assistant.
[sighs] our patient has cartilage damage in both ankles. he gets lidocaine shots before every game to mask the pain. team doctor uses the same needle twice by accident viral hepatitis.
guilty of what exactly?
i was out to dinner with my wife.
yes really.
why didn't you tell anybody?
the blindness means we were wrong about his <U+0096>
great. so we don't have a new symptom.
the obvious answer would be steroids but since we've already ruled them out...
lung pancreatic renal breast <U+0096>
you weren't wrong <U+0096> we found blood in his catheter bag. his kidneys are failing.
(to house) mr. pluta started hallucinating before we could put him under.
since when is malaria a cure for heart failure?
it's not that crazy. privacy's basically a modern invention. towns used to be too small for anybody to keep any secrets. what if it's not the platelets but the glue that holds 'em together?
and a lot of people choose to stay because in return for zero privacy you get community connection.
this one's locked.
i have friends. i like people.
when we're left to our own devices we make lousy choices.
[whispering] ignore it.
[looking out the window still whispering] we're four stories up but there's a fire escape on the other wall. the ledge might be wide enough.
who are you?
yup. what do you know about frankie and taylor?
what do you argue about?
is there any chance frankie touched the rat poison?
it's nice to have visitors.
you realize you're in the same room?
[to foreman after looking at frankie's laptop] personally i don't think you're condescending at all.
gaucher's disease. it would affect her ability to synthesize vitamin k.
you based all that on the fact that she didn't want to lie down?
it's the better choice if you want to have children someday. a plastic valve requires you to be on anticoagulants which are known to cause birth defects. on the other hand the pig valve wears out quickly so you'd need to have heart surgery again in ten years.
thanks for the gift. obviously differs from my own personal beliefs but if these stories have helped you through some spiritual turmoil <U+0096>
day-night reversal.
but we know she has lymphoma.
we gave her the vaccine and her fever spiked. seems to me <U+0096>
it has to be an infection.
we're arguing about couples yoga?
we don't ever do anything together?
honey we do stuff together all the time.
we... you don't like going out to dinner? all right i'll do the yoga.
now you don't want me to do it?
no. i'm not leaving until we work this out.
you can wait in <U+0097>
she's having some tests run.
(sighing and reading from the file) we think her drinking may have damaged her heart.
just when she's at school?
if you're right the tests will come back negative.
sorry i'm late. (he keys the mic and speaks to abby) nick loves you. (he sits down beside chase)
what does he think i was doing?
why would i lie about that? (chase shrugs and taub sighs) she wants me to do yoga.
when you and cameron had disagreements <U+0097>
sorry. it's just <U+0097>
all right i get the message.
it could be fastidious enteric bacteria.
i am not fighting with my wife. i had a flat tire. it's in my trunk. you can go look at it if you want.
there are other ways to get enteric bacteria into the bloodstream.
if that valve is about to dehisce echo could trigger a heart attack.
maybe we can talk about this another time... or never.
if i admit we're fighting he's gonna want to know what about.
this is easier.
yes... if only i could be as open about my emotional life as you are.
really? i thought it was since we spent an hour talking about yoga but what do i know? i'm not a girl.
if she thinks i'm cheating she would ask.
i'm not seeing anyone else.
so what am i supposed to do? i can't prove a negative.
valves look fine <U+0097> no vegetations no myxomatous changes.
she's rupturing. get the scope out.
we'll figure it out later. we've only got about 30 seconds to get her open.
no leakage from cannulation site.
let's see if she'll start up.
charging. (the machine whines) and go. (machine zaps)
come on.
go. (machine zaps)
pushing five ccs adrenaline. (he pushes the syringe) zap her again.
it's not working. clear. (thirteen does not move aside) clear.
thank god.
t.e.e. and intra-operative visualization showed no vegetations on the valves no structural abnormalities.
since we already ruled out trauma the dissection's probably a genetic defect.
actually his semen is more likely the problem which i realize is not what you were reacting to.
you always use a condom... for everything?
could be some kind of neuropathy. syphilitic lightning pains?
interstitial nephritis?
how can you convince someone you're not cheating on them?
what if i don't want to wait that long?
i know she cares. what i want is for her to be happy. (foreman looks as though he doesn't believe him) what? you don't think i want my wife to be happy?
i certainly hope so.
(texting to rachel) whatcha doing?
house! it's not funny. i got enough problems already.
she was screaming she was being sucked into a black hole so we should look for a tumor in her anus?
abby. can you hear me?
she seized for over a minute.
if i say her blood pressure shot up over 200 and she bit her tongue would that be a satisfactory answer?
she claims she emerged from her body as a younger version of herself and started talking. she couldn't remember what was discussed.
i'll catch up.
good 'cause i wasn't planning on lunch.
i agree.
i missed you.
it's the first. i love you. you know that right?
i want you to be able to trust me.
holy crap.
(looking at the monitor) stars? maybe that's a stripe?
what about her left toe? oh sorry. i thought we were randomly picking out body parts that had nothing to do with her symptoms.
it's supposed to be calcified. happens after puberty.
i was gonna head out. if there's any change i assume you'll page me?
on both ends yes.
i'm not having an affair.
no i don't. i'm through living like that.
talk to you later house.
what do you mean does he? he died almost ten years ago.
i don't remember most of the people who were at our wedding. (he closes the album puts it down and gets down on his knees in front of his wife) which is why... i thought i'd ask the love of my life to marry me. (he opens a ring box and presents it to rachel)
i want to be better at it.
that it doesn't mean she doesn't love him.
(seriously) it's true.
how did you know <U+0097>
she said yes.
thank you.
what are you doing down here?
oh you mean this file? [he picks it up off the floor.] the one i said i'd get?
seriously you don't trust me with the immense responsibility of fetching a file?
do you know what these are? the staff credentials files.
down here to be digitized. and we're locked in and whoever's supposed to be watching 'em is locked out. we could look up anything on anyone. malpractice records felony histories <U+0097>
come on. we have a tiny window of opportunity to gain some insight into our colleagues. [foreman gives him a look.] okay. what if we just snoop on the boss?
[flipping through the file] there must be over 30 malpractice settlements in here.
look at this one. patient lost four liters of blood from a botched penisectomy.
he's not even here and he's screwing with us. [drops the file on a shelf] where's the joy in that?
yeah but i decided against stabbing myself in the leg or getting addicted to pain pills.
where did you <U+0097>
it is after hours. i'll take one. [tips one into his hand] walk in house's shoes for a night.
dude.
is the room still spinning?
i'm gonna try to stand up.
oh yeah. that's working.
no way.
[still leaning on the shelves laughs too] what?
seriously?
that's a great idea. we start a fight club. maybe we... [foreman punches him lightly. he stays standing. he feels his face with both hands while foreman makes come on gestures.] oh my god! you <U+0097> that is so cool!
i can still feel my hand.
what were you gonna do? [laughs] flex your goatee muscles? wait a minute. [taub stops laughing and takes a folder out of foreman's bag.] this is your credentials file?
that's why you came down here. not for the patient file. you wanted... [foreman grabs for it again. taub runs off.] you wanted...
[reads] uh interned at hopkins. old news. [excited] here we go. academic probation.
i'm afraid i can't do that. faked a lab result. [pseudo-scolding] very wrong! and you came down to destroy the record before it gets digitized. permanentized. even wronger.
it was stupid. you had great grades. one lab result shouldn't have mattered.
faking lab results is one thing. but you needing to come down here to destroy the records 12 years after the fact... this isn't about med school. you don't think you belong here. at the hospital.
[comes around the corner] finished all the lab work a year earlier. [he lunges for the file and foreman runs off with it.]
what can i say? that concert was very moving to me. i have to take a knee. [he leans over and tries to catch his breath.]
i would trade mine for yours in a second. when i was in med school i thought i'd be house some day. instead i am a fellow working with <U+0096> working for people years younger than me.
you should be proud of yours. your life's been trending up.
you want your file?
[drops file on a table] good for you.
we don't have to tell anybody what we <U+0097>
i'll grab it.
interesting night huh? [he holds the door open for her. she opens her shirt flashes him and leaves without saying a word or breaking her stride.] interesting night.
(looking up) what the hell?
(reading the file) he works at a renaissance festival?
a full set of armor would protect against visible trauma but not transmitted concussive force. could be a subdural hematoma.
an evil satanic subdural hematoma.
(standing) i still think a hematoma is more likely.
but you just<U+0097>
normal except for the fact that he likes to play dress-up.
and the part where you beat the crap out of each other in armor?
that's not exactly sanitary.
i think they call that breakfast in australia.
so can wolff-parkinson-white syndrome and it also causes hemorrhaging in the eyes.
question is which type of clostridium?
wouldn't account for his other symptoms. c. tetani on the other hand...
so he cut himself and didn't get a booster shot. the guy fights people with swords for fun. no one said he's smart.
you're buying this honor stuff? fighting's not brave. it's just stupid.
you think i've never been in a fight?
i took on three guys in college once.
a severe reaction could cause the blisters and maybe irritate his eyes enough to cause the hemorrhaging but the chest pain and seizures...
how fast is it?
it's not mrsa.
he tested positive. you'll blow his heart out!
i told you.
that wasn't caused by poison ivy.
leukemia?
i recommend we start with a full cancer workup starting with the<U+0097>
looks like you were right. tumors... dozens of them. inside and on the surface.
what is that?
do you think he poisoned himself?
not if it collected slowly in his liver and it all started leaking into his system at once.
these tumors that aren't tumors what if they're focal hepatic lesions filled with blood? every time one explodes it'd be releasing another dose.
seizures paralysis weak immune system and eventually coma.
and his heart rate and bp are getting even more erratic.
uh something's wrong. we performed a gastric lavage and administered activated charcoal but he's getting worse not better.
if it was hemlock he'd either be dead already or getting better with treatment.
he may have had some hemlock but it's not what's killing him.
and the rhabdo makes the third.
animals also eat their young and kill their rivals. that make it weird that most of us don't?
chances are this couple was unhappy in the first place. this is their attempt to save something that never<U+0097> (he stops as they are all staring at him). go on.
you hate it.
any more heartless critiques of my general appearance?
maya and i are just friends.
she's an interesting person. she grew up in ohio. she has three brothers.
so we flirt. it's fun.
it stopped hurting during the x-ray which means it was just an intestinal blockage that passed. we should discharge her.
so how long you been married?
yankees look good this season.
and uh how long have you <U+0096> you know?
most people get divorced at that point.
there are happy monogamous couples out there.
with your stomach?
try to take deep breaths. i'm going to try to slow your heart down.
no. it's not working. need a crash cart in here!
you know we should really throw away that loofah. they're imported. sometimes they're not sterilized. we think our patient got amoebiasis from hers.
we're treating now. she should be fine. it's actually kind of bizarre. she and her husband have an open marriage.
well she does. her husband's totally fine with it. i mean it's crazy right?
i thought it was interesting.
no. i mean i know you'd never
i'm not<U+0097>
okay. there's a woman at work. people say she's attracted to me but nothing's happened. nothing's going to happen. i'm not having an affair.
no honey. i'm trying to be honest. i don't want to make the same mistakes.
look she's attractive. there's an attraction. aren't there men who make you feel that way?
of course you are. (his pager beeps.) our patient's lost all movement in her legs.
i'm sorry. the woman's paralyzed. i'll get a cab.
tests show no spinal cord injury no cerebral lesions no hemorrhage.
thanks to you. i brought up open marriage with rachel. it was a disaster.
so the only time you're not interested in my marriage is after you blow it up?
you pushed me into this.
conversation sort of got away from me. it was a train wreck.
so my cheating is biologically predetermined? (rolls his eyes). fantastic.
that's because being short and bald doesn't hurt anybody.
there's nothing there. it's not adrenal cancer. and maybe you're right about me. but i'm not gonna stop trying. rachel's worth it.
hi. sorry i didn't make it home last night. i needed to run some tests.
i told you nothing's going<U+0097>
are you giving me permission to sleep with other women?
i want you.
tomorrow's thursday.
she would love that but duty calls.
what's the matter?
physical exam was unrevealing. ultrasound was clean.
patient. abdominal pain.
what if what matters isn't when the pain started but when it stopped?
no but house prepped her for the x-ray with a barium enema.
it's cutting off blood flow. we need to fix it before your bowel gets necrotic and dies.
when this happens in adults it's usually a sign of abdominal cancer. we'll fix the overlap and then search your intestine for tumors.
think i should wear a tie tonight?
home.
of course. it's only fair. but i don't think she will.
if she did go out that would be tough but i think i can handle it.
i know i'd rather be jealous than a liar. (they are still examining the intestine.) got something here. kelly clamp and scalpel.
or her declining kidney function. we ran panels during surgery.
nothing's happened. it's okay.
no. i've been an idiot and i don't need anything else. i just need you.
i do. i love you rachel. (they hug. she half laughs half cries.)
let's go home.
there are other doctors. (he hugs her and they walk away).
we've gone from too few ideas to too many and our patient's running out of time.
i went home with my wife.
i can't hurt rachel like that. sickle cell anemia would have shown on blood tests. no flattened intestinal villi rules out celiac. (they all stare at him. he stops.) seriously? our patient's dying and we can't move past my sex life?
hemochromatosis is a possibility. excess iron builds up causes problems throughout the body.
polyarteritis nodosa?
you need a hand?
sorry about canceling the other night.
this is dr. house. (to house) aphasia and syncope.
we ruled out all the common causes of fainting: low blood pressure hypoglycemia dehydration.
what about the syncope?
i don't think he was faking.
the same way a guy doesn't give up a lucrative medical practice to come work for you?
i'm not that predictable. for example you're probably not expecting me to ask you out for dinner tonight.
you won't even consider it?
the truth is since i called this thing off my wife has been very grateful and i could do with a down night. if i go out with the boss nobody can blame me.
no. that's the point. i need a little<U+0097>
i'm not lying.
okay. fontina at 8:30.
you think his lung is faking it?
you really don't trust this guy do you?
that somebody else now lives in?
not the glass. no.
the place looks like...1960s? could have lead paint.
if it gets us out of here before the owner comes back yes.
(sniffing a used coffee cup) that i changed my mind.
because this b and e has actual b.
what are you doing?
more ceiling.
asbestosis. i like it. i'll be in the car.
uh it's okay. we're doctors. nobody was home so<U+0097>
is he a friend of yours?
so you're bisexual?
lung tap turned up mononucleosis. er doesn't routinely test for it. it explains the pe and can be virtually asymptomatic.
absolutely no reason to look at me.
patients weren't lying about their sexual orientation before.
tell me she's not looking at me.
yep. looks like being gay didn't make him sick.
they gave him electroconvulsive therapy to make him straight?
(sitting down across from house) sorry. i completely forgot. my wife just started a ceramics class tuesdays at 8:00. it's a half-hour drive from here. she won't be back till 10:30. (he looks up at house who doesn't believe him) she's taking it with her girlfriend marly. she hopes to make a tea service. you want to call her?
(talking quietly and quickly) okay yes you're right about everything. but please house. don't tell her.
friday nights. sounded like fun.
(to house) i found a ceramics class in trenton on friday nights that was full so my wife couldn't join me. (turning to address the team) ep study ruled out shocks.
valium will help you relax.
ted?
are you okay? you weren't discussing wedding plans were you?
fainted.
he was lying down both times we took his blood pressure.
and his aphasia. he was upright then you laid him down on the bed to test him. bp reverted to normal voice came back jabbing him with the needle had nothing to do with it.
yeah. you did?
your numbers look good. we're gonna keep you on these meds.
he's got severe headaches.
that's what we're thinking. cerebral infection would explain the headaches could have caused p.o.t.s. if it's fungal it could have spread to the heart.
remind me why that has anything to do with you.
and destroying my marriage will help me focus.
csf was negative for infection and his headaches are worse.
please don't.
we made his headaches worse?
you should be feeling some relief soon.
he's stroking.
(to ted) tell me your full name.
then what is it?
sarcoidosis?
wasn't easy. bought a suitably cruddy set of fife and drum napkin rings online. (diagnosing again) scleroderma?
too much. i got into a bidding war with some lunatic. histoplasmosis.
you're kissmyasthma99?
we've run every test that makes sense asked every question we can think of gone over his history a dozen times.
or we could question them separately and not torture them.
what about sex?
erectile dysfunction?
or because it's vascular. i know we did an mra but arterial disease causing acute ischemia could explain the heart neuro symptoms and maybe even p.o.t.s.
the penile plethysmograph measures changes in blood flow in your penis. tells us if there's a circulatory problem. you just need to be in the right... state.
where you don't want to get one.
everything looks fine.
you're lactating.
pituitary tumor. could also explain his libido and heart issues.
didn't say cancer. prolactinomas can be benign.
pituitary mri<U+0097>
its orthostatic effect was mimicking p.o.t.s.
proper treatment is surgery. we'll get you in right away.
i called it off. for real this time.
one day at a time. (handing the box to house) napkin rings. my way of saying thanks.
for trying to save it.
expensive ones.
it's subtle.
you want us to take her there?
[voice over] we've kept the patient up for 12 hours now. no hint of seizure-like activity. we should shut this down.
[voice over] i think there's plenty of stress in here.
[puts the phone back to his ear] apparently without her memory the patient's personality has returned to what you might call its natural state.
and the d.i. came from damage to the hypothalamus.
we're having a consent issue with the patient.
we're having a consent issue with the patient.
no. we can't cut the brain stem.
[enters] we used fluoroscopy to guide pacemaker placement in the patient's heart.
[to alvie noncommittal] hello. [to house] rapidly progressive dilated cardiomyopathy. this isn't s.e. and whatever it is it's not just in her brain. it's attacking her whole body.
[uncomfortable] hello.
what's going on?
[voice over] even i.v. antibiotics will take time to work.
your guy's stable. the two dozen other patients<U+0097>
or you're wrong and he just fell asleep.
were you never a medical resident?
or it'll just prove he suffered head trauma from the crash.
uh less than a minute. are you in any pain?
(pointing) that's not expected. (there is also blood seeping from jay's right eye)
unless it's just conjunctive coagulopathy from the trauma.
advancing catheter through interior jugular vein. you told house you were at therapy.
your therapy's on thursdays.
really? i'm not gonna rat you out. we're friends. i just wanna make sure you're okay.
subarachnoid bleed.
we also have to consider other infections.
i guess i am.
excuse me officer.
he was claustrophobic right before the bleed and before the fever. we told him that he probably did fall asleep.
what's that?
what's wrong?
are you okay?
