29 year old female first seizure one month ago lost the ability to speak. babbled like a baby. present deterioration of mental status.
so put on a white coat like the rest of us.
you see where the administration might have a problem with that attitude.
fair enough. i don't like healthy patients. the 29 year old female
she's my cousin.
no wonder you're such a renowned diagnostician. you don't need to actually know anything to figure out what's wrong.
hah yes just a simple country doctor. brain tumors at her age are highly unlikely.
protein markers for the three most prevalent brain cancers came up negative.
no family history.
other side. no environmental factors.
and she's not responding to radiation treatment.
come on! why leave all the fun for the coroner? what's the point of putting together a team if you're not going to use them? you've got three overqualified doctors working for you. getting bored.
ok once again.
good.
[scoffs] well you might run into him at the movies or on the bus.
he's a good doctor.
caring's a good motivator. he's found something else. [has rebecca grab his hands] feel this?
how about this?
ok squeeze. [pause] harder. all right.
yeah.
i think so.
as dr. house likes to say everybody lies.
[pause] yes he cares about me.
a little help in here!
no toxins no medication?
family history of neurological problems?
that's ridiculous. you can ask her yourself. can we get back to [interrupted]
rachel adler's not jewish?
[chuckles] dr. foreman a lot of jews have non-jewish relatives and most of us don't keep kosher. i can see getting through high school without learning a thing about jews but medical school
really? this guy'she
yes yes her name is rebecca. i call her rachel.
heylisten
just like rebecca adler did.
it could still be a hundred other things. the eosinophil count was normal.
proving nothing.
but it proves nothing.
no you can't. i was just with her she doesn't want any more treatments she doesn't want any more experiments she wants to go home and die.
he's not gonna do it. she's not just a file to him anymore. he respects her.
it got you to take the case.
you've never lied to me?
oh really.
hey!
is cuddy down the hall counting to 50?
well you've got a full waiting room how long do you think you can ignore them?
you're doing this to avoid 5 minutes of work?
yes concerned parents can be so annoying. just tell cuddy you've got an urgent case you had to leave early.
and that would be wrong. but luckily the definition of urgent is fungible.
you have no cases. you have no cases. you've got handpicked doctors specialists working for you and they're sitting on their hands?
time well spent i'm sure. foreman and chase?
you actually treated him?
well it does actually but that doesn't mean you're guilty.
she's very good at her job.
that's why you came up with the brain talking to the virus thing?
i don't believe you. you're gonna run dna tests?
you're an ass.
blood pressure's not responding to iv fluids.
he's sick i care i'm pathetic.
because this one's is in our emergency room.
yes i checked the stairwell it's clear.
wait how was that so easy?
blood pressure's not responding to iv fluids?
i looked in on him.< he's much better.
that smugness of yours really is an attractive quality.
i get that you're not a big believer in the catching flies with honey' approach but do you honestly think you'll collect a jarful by cleverly taunting them?
i think he'd be going home not feeling like a piece of crap.
you want him to feel like a piece of crap?
hey cuddy said you needed a consult what's up? i'm busy.
uh
uh no.
what's with you and her?
do you have a thing for her? the only people who can get to you <U+0096>
yeah. [to house]< you will lie cheat and steal to get what you want but you're incapable of kissing a little ass?
house!< wrong bottle. [he gives house the right bottle.] do me a favor. take one of these wait five minutes for it to kick in and find cuddy and kiss her ass. [pause]
ah the cough.
beauty often seduces us on the road to truth.
so true.
that you were wrong?< i try to work through the pain <U+0096>
so reality was wrong.
what if it is his blood?
unless you've got something better.
screw the tests.< do an exploratory laparotomy and find out what's in there.
yeah you're right.< let's stick with the wrong pill theory. [pause]
i think you'll remember. you know it wouldn't hurt you to be wrong now and then.
big weekend?
cuddy got you doing inventory?
the gout medicine od?
the fact that i know that it's a gout medicine od would seem to indicate that the case is already solved.
what about the fact that the kid is now i believe the technical term is not sick?
stop it.
so you're not happy with your ecstasy theory?
people lie.
you know what i'm not interested.
no because i'm well-adjusted. [he walks off.]
i'm still amazed you're in the same room with a patient.
wow that is amazing. you hung out in the ob/gyn lounge and heard about two sick babies. it's eerie. [goes to touch something i'm presuming a baby]
[confused] all right
[unbelieving] these kids have totally unrelated illnesses.
the hartig girl has a bowel obstruction. no matter how close their beds are i'm pretty sure kids can't share a blockage.
well normally i'd say it indicates a patient's bowel is obstructed but i'm pretty sure you have some deeper truth to impart <U+0096>
[trying not to laugh] okay you're upset because they threw you out of their lounge.
you want i can get you a key to the oncology lounge.
we're getting tivo.
even if it is air it could have been there before the obstruction.
how many med students have you got swabbing the decks?
find anything yet?
that's bad. and diagnostically completely insignificant.
what did you tell them?
they seemed relieved. you tell them how sick their son is?
alison their baby's dying. if the parents weren't in tears when you left you didn't tell them the truth.
do you want them blindsided? want them coming up and saying my god my baby died why didn't you warn me?
no it's about getting them prepared for the likely death of their child.
find anything yet?
tap water contamination. you thinking pseudomonas infection?
huh.
all right we'll figure it out! just just calm down.
they've got it.
shut the blinds. [a nurse does so. judy starts to cry. wilson and chase prep the defibrillator.]
she froze up.
she has a problem.
great then she wouldn't have slept for two weeks. maybe she should be thinking about a different specialty. lab work research? [chase walks up.]
heart damage?
ribavirin and encyclovir don't knock it out.
you didn't find any lung damage?
none of the paramyxoviridae.
all right i'll start looking into whether there are any antivirals for these eight.
they got moved to the fifth floor. but they're probably all checked out by now.
unfinished business?
ah because now you know you're looking for a needle.
if i tell you to let it go it won't make any difference will it?
so cuddy got stool samples from the whole staff. just wait until they come back.
why not?
hmmm.
yeah yeah. that's what's weird. [wilson leaves. we hear coughing in the distance. a old woman is pushing a cart around with teddy bears to give to the newborns. cgi shot of inside the woman's nose which shows the offending virus traveling from her nose to her hand to the fur of the teddy bear to the face of a baby.]
fourth circle of hell. charting goes a lot faster when you eliminate the whole of classic poetry. [house flicks a candy at him.]
you're over two weeks behind on your charting. [house flicks another candy; it almost goes down cuddy's shirt.]
still out by twelve.
what?
she talking to you?
oooh boy. excuse me. [he leaves.]
she doesn't confuse making a mistake with being incompetent.
so you might have screwed this up?
so it's only a theoretical capacity for error.
you know most people who think as much of themselves as you do like to talk about themselves.
can't get enough of this place huh?
so i shouldn't read too much into the fact that you were looking for it in the drawer with the epinephrine syringes in it?
oh right. i forgot that you care about what people think. prescribing cigarettes for inflammatory bowel? it could cause lung cancer you know.
they ran out of colors?
huh. well guilt does a lot of damage.
you're not here to find your stethoscope. you're not here to clear your reputation. you're here because you're having doubts. you might have screwed up.
okay but if you're wrong? [pause]
fine. you're going to have to go through every record of every patient who's been through this clinic in the last two days and you're gonna have to hope that those records can be trusted which by the way yours can't. [wilson leaves.]
maybe it was the preservatives in the iv?
latex tubing?
well it could be mast-cell leukemia. it can cause anaphylaxis.
maybe it's just divine will.
you do realize if you're wrong about the big picture that is you're going to burn right?
yeah. i want you to accept that sometimes patients die against all reason. sometimes they get better against all reason.
i don't think the nuns would agree with you on that.
how'd it go?
maybe she's allergic to god.
the sixth circle of hell.
i think that's the seventh.
god we must be fun at parties.
how's the sister?
great.
you screwed up.
yeah and if cuddy hadn't taken you off the case you would have killed her. [small pause] you want to come over for christmas dinner?
yeah hanukkah dinner. what do you care? it's food it's people.
maybe i'll come to your place.
i'm a doctor she's used to being alone. [house raises his eyebrows.] i don't want to talk about it.
good night. that was sweet.
well the schizophrenia explains one mystery <U+0096> why you're so fascinated by a woman with a bump in her leg. like picasso deciding to whitewash a fence.
right. solve this one and you're on your way to stockholm. [ they reach the nurse's station where wilson fiddles with paperwork ]
a little louder -- i don't think everyone heard you. [ walking down the hall ]
oh! clearly you're not interested.
there's a better place for it?
[ stopping while house walks ahead ] where are you going?
you won't talk to patients because they lie but give you a patient with no concept of reality [ catches up ]
dodging chainsaws no doubt.
yeah. i'm pretty sure.
he likes puzzles.
you don't think so?
yeah. well he hates them and he's fascinated by them. tell me you can't relate to that symptom. [ walks away ]
learn anything from the human connection?
[ walking away ] good luck.
the vitamin k caused the dvt and aggravated the liver. but the tumor's the real reason for the bleed. the tumor's the problem.
mrs. palmeiro i'm dr wilson. i'm afraid i have some bad news from your ultrasound. you have cancer.
the tumor's way too big. he won't even consider it.
he has no discretion. five point eight centimeters is past the surgical guidelines.
ninety five percent ethanol. the ethanol dehydrates the tumor cells literally sucks them dry. shrinks the tumor temporarily.
well if we're lucky just long enough to fool the surgeon.
cuddy didn't say anything about pushing bergen to finish the surgery?
well either that or she's just being nice.
schizophrenics can make rational decisions.
your man socrates.
she's not schizophrenic?
it's a little late but within the parameters.
well yeah but that's not the problem. didn't we just leave your office?
you ok?
i know.
isn't it your birthday around now?
well. that's what breasts look like.
well if a tree pretends to fall in a forest house come on they're breasts. they're a birthday present not a philosophical treatise.
no she thinks if she looks different she'll be more attractive which i have to say
well exactly that was going to be my next point.
it's a gift from my wife.
stop! stop. i don't.
the mri reveals nothing.
it's not a tumor.
did you look at her breasts?
could be paraneoplastic.
it's most likely a small cell tumor its no surprise we're having trouble finding it. we should do a pet scan. start with her lungs and maybe her bones sometimes it presents with no tumor at all.
it happens. twelve percent of cases.
if it's not paraneoplastic and it is a reaction to some sort of toxin it's obviously not coming from their home.
creepy-crawlies are consistent with paraneoplastic syndrome.
she could have got it from a transfusion.
what about toxins?
he needs to think.
yep.
there's nobody. give it up.
well they're french. you can't trust a word they say.
i'm not gonna date a patient's daughter.
there was no date! [house glares] i had lunch with one of the nurses. it's her first time in an oncology unit and she's having a tough time emotionally.
i wanted to be nice. that's all. i mean it.
you ordered it.
so we're treating her for african sleeping sickness because you don't think it's possible for someone to be faithful in a relationship?
yes.
look i'm not having an affair. i had lunch with someone i work with at work. once.
i love my wife.
you can be a real jerk sometimes you know that?
at least i try.
and as long as you're not trying you can say whatever you want.
the healer with his magic powers i could rub his gentle brow for hours his manly chest his stubble jaw everything about him leaves me raw-
-with joy. oh house your very name will never leave this girl the same. not bad for an eighty-two year old. she asked me to give that to her true love.
that's fairly disgusting.
you better watch yourself around this babe. here are the test results.
i never bother to wash new clothes before i wear them.
hey! i'm a man. i don't have time for laundry i'm saving lives here. no she doesn't wash them either.
well you know me. always living on the edge. [enter foreman and chase]
godot would be faster
house!
why are you doing this? it's not going to keep you out of jail.
even if you win the restraining order and battery charge stay in place. what have you gained?
to diagnose him? you can't get near him!
you know how some doctors have the messiah complex they need to save the world? you've got the rubik's complex you need to solve the puzzle.
congratulations impressive legal argument.
oh say no more. i didn't notice any clubbing on the judge's fingers.
so the family history thing
and mental illness.
that's why they call it pulling the plug. [inside the room john nods. house turns away for a second.]
he's still breathing.
he's stable but one of his arms is now paralyzed.
do you think he's just being stubborn?
yeah and that girl dropped the charges against kobe. doesn't mean that he should call her and see if she's free to get a sundae.
so your philosophy is if they don't want treatment they get it shoved down their throat but if it might cure their paralysis whoa better slow down.
what's your philosophy on employee relations?
great. sounds like you know what you're doing. [a knock. hamilton enters.]
foreman asked to leave?
homeless. admitted 24 hours ago with a suspected drug overdose. her tox screen's clean but she's still delusional.
[interrupts] we're a teaching hospital. no id. doesn't even seem to know her name. i got called in because of some lesions on her arm.
the lesions were non-cancerous but i noticed a twitch. her wrist.
[rushes forward] she's seizing. get me some ativan.
[holds up jane's arm it snaps back and hits her face] it's real. check her finger sticks.
i need d15. iv push stat.
fake low blood sugar. now that's acting.
what about the twitch?
why fake a twitch? in case the seizure was too subtle? a twitch could indicate a tumor which could indicate<U+0096>
[sighs and nods]
he's wrong
he took one look at her and figured it was a scam.
[exasperated] house the woman had a twitch. she had a seizure.
he just wanted her out the door!
[frustrated sigh] i - just - want her to get some medical attention.
[glares back] well she's my patient. no harm in a second opinion.
well you've got her all figured out.
yes you've got that going for you. how could i have doubted your medical opinion?
[opens mouth in protest]
low magnesium could cause a twitch.
great. thanks. [nods and leaves]
[enters] not necessarily there could still be something neurological going on.
obviously.
[quite calmly] my goodness! was she okay?
any home addresses?
any treatment for neurological problems anything that might explain the twitch?
well i'd be bummed out too. zero degrees living in a box.
abdominal pain.
[interrupts] wait a minute. she goes in the first time they look they can't find anything. ten months later why should she subject herself to that again?
she didn't. the nurse made the appointment. they were looking <U+0096> they were looking for ovarian cancer.
with jerry lousing yeah. he's an oncologist.
she's my new girlfriend i'm having a tattoo designed i was hoping you could find out her name.
yes i forgot i need a reason to give a crap.
the metric system always confuses me.
get me some thin mints. [turns and leaves]
oh. i thought you were too sick to be down here.
mazel tov.
i think he had a 4.0
you really don't need to know everything about everybody.
yeah delirious. what's the other file?
you know in some cultures it's considered almost rude for one friend to spy on another. of course in swedish the word friend can also be translated as limping twerp'.
did your pager really just go off or are you ditching the conversation?
solid non-cystic mass on the left ovary. five by three centimeters central necrosis. the only question is whether she dies in two months or three.
you were right. there's nothing we can do for her here. might as well put her back on the street.
a solid mass on her ovary. ovarian cancer's way more likely.
[enters] the something else is gonna to melt her brain.
maybe the bowel got nicked in the biopsy.
well she didn't have a fever when i admitted her!
[interrupts] no! jefferson put her on prozac and it wasn't a problem.
oh just like you were going to do!
csf cultures?
you don't walk out of a room with ten milligrams of haldol in your system you don't walk at all.
not to worry. she'll be dead before she can kill anybody.
[closes eyes machine beeps]
she's dying.
[to foreman] come on.
you want me to talk to her?
yeah. that's what you say to her. keep that there and rest for a minute.
whoah whoah whoah!
she may not have that long.
[putting it together] you're going to find james.
well i must say <U+0096> he's done a lot with the place.
[shouts] hello?
man no one's been in here for a long time.
it's not james. [hands over marriage certificate] paul. paul furia.
her husband.
[looks up slowly and hands foreman some papers from the envelope] her kid.
[interrupts bringing the shot back to the present] foreman. foreman. [pauses] they're dead. [hands over newspaper clipping] that car crash two years ago <U+0096> she broke her arm and they were killed.
oh. [sounding perturbed] you followed me?
didn't we have a conversation about friendship?
i have two brothers.
it was irrelevant.
because he's not in my life any more.
[draws breath] this was the last place i saw him nine years ago. i don't even know if he's alive.
okay you feel this?
good. [he begins to cut into his arm.]
we're just testing.
definitely not cancer.
drops any lower he's not going to have any red blood cells to bring oxygen to his body. [while he's saying this house grimaces and puts his hand against the wall to steady himself.] he'll suffocate with his lungs working perfectly.
how long has it been?
ana was negative. it's not lupus.
i was lonely.
that's funny she said you might need one.
no i want to make sure you don't start firing shots from the clock tower.
[while working on the crossword] he hasn't had vicodin in over a day.
checked the biopsy twice it's not cancer.
she's a real masseuse.
she's hot so she's a hooker? what kind of pathetic logic is that?
she's a legitimate masseuse come on. [looks at her] god she's beautiful.
the envious jealous i'm-married-and-i-can't-do-anything logic! [woman comes over.] hello.
she doesn't speak english.
[looking at x-rays of house's hand] i think it's broken. what did you do?
no. door would have broken the skin. this looks like something hard and smooth smashed it.
the brain has a gating mechanism for pain. registers the most severe injury and blocks out the others. did it work?
huh.
you made it a week.
congratulations.
yeah it was a piece of cake. you learn anything? [they've reached his office door.]
uh okay.
there are programs. cuddy would give you the time. you could get on a different pain management regimen <U+0096>
you just said
is that all you want? you have no relationships.
you alienate people.
oh come on! drop it! you don't think you've changed in the last few years?
no i was there! you are not just a regular guy who's getting older you've changed! you're miserable and you're afraid to face yourself <U+0096>
and everything's the leg? nothing's the pills? they haven't done a thing to you?
he admitted he's addicted to the narcotics <U+0096>
-- and he says it's not a problem. maybe it's not. what do i know?
nothing. i've done enough damage.
he'd never believe it. [they leave.]
he's got osteopenia. his bones are too thin to fix the arm.
osteo-
how did you know?
mri and pet scan are both negative.
[pulls out a baseball card] well let's see. born 9/21/77.
i-just the jimmy part. the bone's too thin to support the kind of surgery that would let him pitch again. but if we figure out what's causing the osteopenia we can reverse the bone damage then do the surgery.
[finally shuts his mouth] how much?
could that man's accountant say?
[looks horrified] okay please tell me you didn't just say friday night.
i-i can't do it!
i've got the oncology thing! i-ithe rectal cancer lecture they booked me a year ago! i-i-i-i-i can't get out there's no way out!
uh and who?
okay well first of all his name's carl.
he's not just dreaming?
drugs?
all hallucinations would point to digitalis. it would also mess up his heart. but he's not on it and why would he take it?
i'm sorry about the monster trucks.
the only thing is[house stops and turns around] the digitalisit would only explain the later symptoms not the original ones. [turns to look at house. he thinks about this and nods slightly to wilson.]
hey. [he looks down at house's pants questioningly]
i've got some big-boy diapers in my office the rep. hands them out like candy.
[sarcastically] no! not if you like the smell of urine-
stacy's coming into town this weekend we're having dinner. justcatching up.
no stacy the constitutional lawyer. [house looks mildly surprised for a second]
no. it's been a long time. [house continues staring at the bag] if you don't want me to see her-
it's fine if you're upset-
soyou're okay.
with a patient.
just because you got out of clinic duty doesn't mean everybody did.
chase?
dad say why he was here?
you want to get to the bottom of this you're doing it exactly right. don't talk to the people involved drag your buddy away from work for some pointless speculation.
even i don't like you. [he walks off.]
one's always been more than enough for me. [house taps him on the shoulder with his cane.]
[to the blonde] excuse me. [to house] ethics confidentiality? does any of this ring a bell?
it is a juicy piece of gossip. you know what happened? i got all focused on his cancer and lost perspective.
oh! this is where i give you advice and pretend you're going to listen to it. i like this part. did rowan ask you not to tell?
i was wrong! this is the musing-out-loud part! do i actually need to be here?
hmmm he might even cry. on the other hand there is the do unto others thingy.
you want to know everything. there's also the keeping your promises thingy.
she's the hospital accountant! we were going over billing procedures!
what are you going to do?
you're probably talking about a primary bone cancer. can be tricky to detect you'll need a bone scan <U+0096>
sure i've nothing better to do besides departmental meetings and budget reports new chairman of the board you know.
right. clinical trials
and a very bad omen for you. there's not much money in curing african sleeping sickness.
billionaires buy movie studios to get laid. they buy hospitals to get respect.
to get laid.
oh come on. you know how good you have it here.
you do the cases you want to do when you want to do them. you're not going to get that anywhere else.
just keep your head down that's all i'm saying. and put on your coat.
yes. [house throws a vicodin up in the air and catches it in his mouth.]
hello. i'm dr. wilson. i was <U+0096>
there's no cancer in your bone.
there's something called referred pain. you could have cancer in one part of your body that presents in another. given your age and your family history i'm thinking your colon.
whoa. there's a quick test to see if you even have it a colonoscopy.
if you have colon cancer we can treat it it's early.
you're a smart person about to make a very bad decision. you know cancer treatment's come a long way in twelve years but if you don't do this now <U+0096>
there is another way. we could do a virtual colonoscopy. basically we do a ct scan of your colon. it's non-invasive but it's very expensive. i assume that's not a problem. [carly looks at him.] say yes.
virtual colonoscopy was clean. no colon cancer.
she was uncomfortable doing any more tests! i had to convince her to do that one!
she's scared.
yeah.
okay see now you're just being stubborn. it's cold perfectly good excuse to wear your lab coat.
thoracentesis revealed a transudate?
her muga scan what was the ejection fracture? maybe you could treat it surgically.
how do you know she needs a heart transplant?
since when do i need the secret pass code to talk to you?
like that matters to you.
now that's good thinking because i was going to go right to cuddy and rat you out as soon as you were done talking.
because of my position on the board? [house looks at him.] because of my position on the transplant committee? [house says nothing.] hey you brought this up for a reason. you need to talk to me.
you sure you're doing the right thing?
[in his best hands-on-hips confrontation voice] you lied didn't you?
big mistake.
you're my friend.
wait you're getting mad at me for sticking up for you?
our friendship is an ethical responsibility. [house's beeper beeps.] what is it?
gone are the days of the grumpy old doc seeing patients in the basement of his house getting paid a few chickens.
you know what cuddy has been locked in with vogler about all day today and yesterday?
you. her secretary's been to the photocopier all day with your records. it's all they're looking at in there. [house looks shocked.]
or rein-car-nated. [a 1965 red corvette in house's parking space. wilson picks up a piece of paper stuck in the windshield wiper.] pink slip. a gift from the arnello brothers.
you can't keep it. it's graft.
right.
he might hurt you. it's definitely possible.
so the mobster's good to go?
brother won't be happy.
you should let vogler tell the feds.
because it matters to him. because you humiliated him the first time joey was released. you think you should still be in third there ace?
and because your job depends on the kind of mood vogler's in at the end of his marathon with cuddy. seriously man have you ever driven an automobile before? there are four gears you know.
huh.
yeah that's real new. you could rent out the corvette every once in a while or lend it to a friend.
but cuddy stood up for you.
to what point?
why only two?
so any thoughts?
who you're gonna let go.
yeah you should be able to pull that off. most billionaires aren't very good with numbers.
you are uniquely talented in many areas but office politics is not one of them. don't take vogler on.
you practically forced it out of him.
i've been thinking. you've made it quite clear that you're miserable here <U+0096>
you're not happy.
with my job yes.
i think i sense a hint of sarcasm there. why don't you pick yourself? quit?
about vogler or foreman?
who's mrs. hernandez?
the ultrasound and biopsy confirmed our worry. the tumor is extremely large at least thirty pounds.
[gives house a you're not helping kind of look] but it's completely benign there's no sign of cancer at all. i've already spoken with dr. bergin and he's available first thing in the morning.
for the surgery.
[looks to house for help but he's keeping his mouth shut on this one] no.
uh it would also relieve your heartburn and discomfort.
that was unexpected.
at this point it doesn't matter what caused the necrosis.
if we don't stop it from spreading it will kill her before the end of the day.
get rid of it. remove the dying flesh before it penetrates the abdominal wall.
we're gonna wait as long as we can but if there's no change in the next few hours we're gonna have to treat the symptoms directly.
warfarin-induced necrosis attacks fatty tissue mainly in the breasts.
a radical mastectomy may be her only chance of survival.
it's toxoplasmosis.
[looking at the chart] false negative on the pcr aids test?
why did you order the second aids test?
oh well that's you. mr. standard procedure. you suspected the first test was a false positive?
yeah but you knew that before you ordered the first test. what changed?
you were sure he had aids then you talked to him then you had doubts. what what did he say?
huh. and you believed him.
everybody lies except politicians? house i do believe you're a romantic. you didn't just believe him you believed in him. do you want to come over tonight and watch old movies and cry? [house gives a great-looking smirk.] dr. cameron's getting to you. well i guess you can't be around that much niceness and not get any on you.
what makes you think i haven't put the moves on her? [house stops and stares then realizes he fell for wilson's trap.] oh. oh boy! you're in trouble. [wilson laughs and walks off. house walks into exam room one where sarah awaits.]
slightly enlarged lymph node in his left armpit.
quarter mil. [cuddy enters.]
and there's a cyst in his liver.
just a little piece. and you are getting something in return.
does it work?
well of course it's the point! he's not asking you to lie he's not asking you to do something illegal <U+0096>
he's not ordering you. he gave you a choice. you chose your staff. i know this isn't easy for you. you'll suffer. vicodin sales in jersey will triple. but you are doing a good thing. [foreman enters diagnostics with the test results house gets up to see them.] only you could feel like crap for doing something good.
well not enough to indicate lymphoma.
no but we would have picked it up somewhere besides one lymph node.
another killer fungus. it's consistent with hairy-cell leukemia.
no his bone marrow's indeterminate spleen's the only way to go.
[sighing] why dr. house?
we've gotta talk.
special board meeting today only one item on the agenda: you.
huh. right.
oh well that settles it. mr. ruthless corporate raider will be stymied go home curl up on the floor of his shower and weep.
does it say how much your team gets paid? where your parking space is? if your car should be filled with horse manure? vogler's smart; he's got some plan to get you.
three centimeter mass in her right upper lobe.
it's small-cell lung cancer. the tumor's starting to press against your esophagus. it hasn't metastasized but it has spread to other parts of your lungs so we can't operate.
some cancer patients get what are called paraneoplastic syndromes. you were making antibodies to fight the tumor. it attacked other cells: your brain first then your liver kidneys even the nerves that control your eyelids. that's called lambert-eaton syndrome it told us the tumor was in the lungs.
small-cell is the most aggressive kind of lung cancer. the five-year survival rate is only about ten to fifteen percent which is why we need to start you on chemo and radiation right away.
you'll need a c-section before you can start the treatment; i can get you in first thing tomorrow morning.
pretty good. twenty-eight weeks so about eighty percent.
i really wouldn't advise waiting.
twenty-nine weeks survival rate is closer to ninety percent.
this cancer moves quick. the median survival's two to four months. if you postpone even for a week
[sitting] sorry.
okay he's screwed up. he's miserable and he should probably reread the ethics code but it works for him. he's saved hundreds of lives.
opposed?
excuse me?
well first of all you can't void my vote by making me stand in the hallway. and second you should check the by-laws. you need notice and at least one business day before you can reconsider any matter.
how can i be conflicted?
i got sacked.
i voted to keep you.
yeah every one of us.
yeah.
brown from oncology voted no so did cuddy taylor and peevey.
yeah getting dumped looks great in who's who. vogler gave me the option of resigning and i took it.
i've got no kids my marriage sucks; i've only got two things that work for me: this job and this stupid screwed-up friendship and neither mattered enough to you to give one lousy speech.
you'd do the same thing. well you'll be gone soon too.
i'll make some calls. [takes the chart]
all right no fever no rash you're fine. take these two pills and show this blue slip to security on your way out. next!
does she have any abdominal pain?
then it's not stomach cancer. have you ruled out sepsis?
whoa whoa whoa wrong form. no fever no neck pain she's fine.
it would account for all her meningial symptoms. rash fever [to patient] you're fine. take these two pills
you should just fire chase.
so you're going to torture him for a while and then fire him? that's cold.
hey i said fire him. [random patient in the hallway vomits. i say because i care.]
what? he completely screwed you over! [house spies cuddy walking there way.]
i'll send the interview home we can reschedule.
so you went to hopkins for both undergrad and med school?
so should i go through all the resumes looking for asian names?
dr. petra gilmar dr. gregory house.
yes well pretty much every fellowship ends that way.
uh uh
well that's great. i think that's all we'll need. thank you for coming by.
that's our hitler!
are you kidding? her background's perfect she's smart she can obviously deal with your insanity
her shoes? what did your horoscope in vogue tell you to avoid women wearing green shoes?
they were prada. it means she has good taste.
okay well they were nice pointy
no someone who can handle a lot of pain is exactly the type you do need.
you're not going to be happy with anyone.
no my advice is much more subtle. stop being an ass. you always find some tiny little flaw to push people away.
you have a history of this.
take these there's water over there blue form to the guard and you're done. [house and wilson walk off.] you had the perfect person and you blew it.
i'm not talking about her.
i'm talking about every woman you've ever given a damn about.
well nobody's perfect.
dead.
no medical degree.
you're going to wind up alone house. [foreman and chase walk up.]
house you have to hire someone.
do you need your parking validated?
so she's really coming back?
you give her a raise? increase her benefits?
who is this guy?
[shaking his head] it's got to be something. i mean she didn't come back because she likes you. [house gets a very wooden look on his face and wilson knows he's struck gold.] wait a minute! she did come back because she likes you!
what?!? [both wilson and the other guy look very excited.]
yes <U+0096>
young ing<e9>nue doctor falling in love with gruff older mentor; her sweet gentle nature bringing him to a closer fuller understanding of his wounded heart.
you think that was a bit of an overreaction?
it's apple juice. now go find that man and apologize. one more patient complaint and you're looking at a suspension. [he takes house's tv and goes back into the exam room.]
game's over. you two make nice?
what happened?
holy you gave the guy a stroke? [harvey kind of moans and with that we go to the opening credits.]
and house gives him a stroke totally blows out his pupil.
does that surprise anyone here?
hi. are you uh can we talk?
i just want to make sure no one gets hurt.
oh it's not you i'm worried about. [cameron stares at him.] it's been a long time since he opened up to someone and i you better be absolutely sure you want this because if he opens up again and gets hurt i don't think there's going to be a next time.
the wide side's too short. you're gonna look like lou costello.
open doors for her help her with her chair <U+0096>
uh not since disco died. comment on her shoes her earrings and then move on to d.h.a. her dreams hopes and aspirations. trust me. panty-peeler. oh and if you need condoms i've got some.
drug rep. they've got antibiotics built in somehow.
and if you were a surgeon that would actually matter. that's a good idea settle your nerves. get me a beer too.
you're gonna eat before dinner? [house reaches into the fridge and takes out a corsage. wilson gets up to investigate.]
i think she likes lame.
yes i really want to know about the quality of the food. either something very good happened or something very bad. which is it?
i'm sure.
just answer one question:
you didn't think she was going to get married?
and what? you're not gonna treat him?
oh sure that makes sense. she's just using the old sick husband routine as an excuse to get back in touch with you. you think this is easy for her? the only reason she'd be anywhere near you was if she was desperate.
she doesn't hate you. she loves you she just can't stand to be around you. [the keen student shows up.]
[standing in the back] do you think he was dead? do you think those experiences were real?
what you're thinking is you're going to save him be a hero and win her back. it's always impressive that level of twisted narcissism.
you can't be within fifty feet of stacy warner.
treat the husband. stay away from the wife.
hey you have to treat this like a regular case. [house gets into the elevator.] be yourself: cold uncaring distant.
what's up?
my wife's going to kill me. we're having company she cooked.
i'm sorry.
