dr. house doesn't like dealing with patients.
creutzfeld-jakob disease.
dr. house is the head of diagnostic medicine. he's very busy but he has taken a keen interest in your case.
basically whatever's in your head lights up like a christmas tree.
all right rebecca [over intercom] we know you may feel a little claustrophobic in there but we need you to remain still.
rebecca? [over intercom] rebecca? [back in booth] rebecca! get her out of there.
she was claustrophobic 30 seconds ago she's not sleeping. we gotta get her out of there!
she's having an allergic reaction to gadolinium. she'll be dead in two minutes.
oh she's ashen.
come on i can't ventilate.
just get some rest for now.
she probably knew she was allergic to gadolinium figured it was an easy way to get someone to cut a hole in her throat.
it's house it's urgent. i'm sorry.
you couldn't have knocked?
inflammation of the blood vessels in the brain is awfully rare. especially for someone her age.
that could mean anything or nothing.
you can't diagnose that without a biopsy.
and if we're wrong?
we're treating you for vasculitus it's the inflammation of blood vessels in the brain.
[to nurse] thank you. [to chase] if house is right no harm if he's wrong we've given a dying woman a couple days hope.
if there was any other type available i would have given her that.
so what now?
and by then maybe there's nothing we can do about it.
what's up?
adler's house? why don't we just ask her for a key?
house doesn't believe in pretense. figures life's too short and too painful. so he just says what he thinks.
well if you wanted to be judged on your medical prowess only maybe you shouldn't have broken into someone's home.
i managed to make it to 17 without a criminal record.
that's right. you stole a loaf of bread to feed your starving family right? you always eat during break-ins?
no.
no.
you went to hopkins right?
so you went to a better school than i did got better grades than i did.
millions of people eat ham every day. it's quite a leap to think that she's got a tapeworm.
everywhere.
but we could claim that the illness made her mentally incompetent.
so because you respect her you're going to let her die?
why did you hire me?
kinda hard to work for a guy who doesn't respect you.
is that rhetorical?
you hired a black guy because he had a juvenile record.
you hired me to get into my pants?!
i was in the top of my class.
i did an internship at the mayo clinic.
but not the best?
i worked very hard to get where i am.
am i supposed to be flattered?
no!
no.
i have to go.
if anyone asks you have 11 daughters and 5 sons.
he cured you you didn't cure him.
i can explain.
it's impossible to get to you through normal channels they have called[interrupted]
16 year old male sudden onset of double vision and night terrors with no apparent cause. the kid's been to 2 neurologists[interrupted]
yeah.
where are you going?
you're going to examine a patient?
dan
they didn't mention it no.
you enjoyed that. i brought a reasonable case to your attention and you shoved it in my face just to humiliate me.
why would you say that?
i'm not an only child.
what?
i took an accurate family history.
who cares? if he got it from his parents they'd both be dead by now can we get on with the differential diagnosis?
what about leukoencephalopathy? in a 16 year old.
no parents said he was conscious during the event and didn't remember anything afterwards. that's a night terror.
no lesions no white matter.
no space-occupying tumors.
then what clue are you talking about?
there's a problem.
because we're having a disagreement about whether or not it is ms.
mcdonald criteria requires six months to make a definitive diagnosis.
without the lesions we can't be sure.
we should wait until we [interrupted]
security checked the videotapes for all the perimeter cameras; he's still gotta be in the hospital.
main floor.
he doesn't know where he is.
dan!
they're not suing but i think only because chase asked them.
what about sex?
i meant maybe he has neurosyphilis.
sure didn't need one to confirm ms.
i'll start him on iv penicillin.
yeah guatemalan.
thank you so much.
[scoffs]
dan?
he's hearing voices.
come on dan!
auditory hallucination shows further brain degeneration.
mri rules out vasculitis.
we already did that.
oligoclonal bands still have to mean something.
ct scan rules out subdural.
waiting for cbc and chem-7.
what's this?
i can't believe you [interrupted]
you guys aren't going to believe this.
house was right the father's not the father.
i assume it's impossible to tell when he might move into stage two.
can we treat it?
hey good morning.
and your immune system is responding.
well that's 2 better than last time. how you doing with the whole adoption thing?
you sure you're ok?
he's doing pretty well. he's a smart kid. i think he's gonna be fine.
him.
no it wouldn't cause the blood pressure problems. allergy?
no condition accounts for all these symptoms.
what'd you ask her?
i mean i hope you got some specifics on exactly what was going on. it's a girl who thinks it could kill you it's worth knowing about. [pause]
it's too soon to say they're not having an effect.
viral heart infection. the intestines aren't getting enough blood and the result is belly pain.
pretty sure it is yeah.
hypothyroidism.
not like this. intravenous levothyroxine is an artificial thyroid medication that should take care of it. also the nurses are going to start you on unasyn it's a more targeted antibiotic.
yes.
bad luck huh?< don't worry he should be back to ditching work in no time. [the door opens brandon's parents come in {referenced as mr. and ms. merrell)]
um brandon is 
i didn't phrase it quite that way.
his insane ideas are usually right. we've been here long enough to 
negative on parvovirus b19.
thank you i was born to run gels.
what about chase?
because i asked what kind of sex could kill you?
so a woman can't express her interest in sex without it being some professional powerplay?
men should grow up.
yeah what are you doing here?
i was just being glib.
no before when i was talking about brandon's girlfriend thinking sex could kill you.< i was just making a joke because i was uncomfortable.
i'm uncomfortable about sex. [chase turns quickly.]
sex could kill you.< do you know what the human body goes through when you have sex? pupils dilate arteries constrict core temperature rises heart races blood pressure skyrockets [chase is starting to look uncomfortable] respiration becomes rapid and shallow the brain fires bursts of electrical impulses from nowhere to nowhere and secretions spit out of every gland [chase starts to look for an escape route] and the muscles tense and spasm like you're lifting three times your body weight. it's violent it's ugly and it's messy and if god hadn't made it unbelievably fun the human race would have died out eons ago. [small pause] men are lucky they can only have one orgasm.< you know that women can have an hour-long orgasm? [chase is very wide-eyed; foreman walks in.] hey foreman.< what's up?
his white blood cell count is down which means his body can't fight off infections.
but once he checked into this hospital he was completely in our control. our food our pills our everything. so even if you're right no gout medication.< he'd either continue to deteriorate or he would have gotten better. but he got better and then he got worse. it doesn't fit. it doesn't make sense.
they're all gone?
sensors will give us information we need for the exploratory surgery later this afternoon.
pressure's dropped.
get the curtains! [chase closes them. they prepare the defibrillator.]
i got a pulse.
brandon's not ready for surgery.
he crashed during prep. he's also experiencing pain in his fingers. i think some bug may have gotten in the clean room. i think we should double his dosage of gcsf to temporarily boost his blood cell count.
brandon.
brandon.
we know now.< [foreman gives the people outside a thumbs-up. mrs. merrell hugs her husband and then hugs mindy.]
temperature's normal.
yes you're doing great.
i'll make sure it's a good one. [she gives brandon the cough pills.]
your old pills didn't have a letter on them?
well these will help your cough. [she starts to leave.]
no.
oh sorry wrong room.
[out in the hall] 12 rooms that's it?
two delivery rooms four different maternity rooms no common personnel and no common equipment.
a needle in a haystack.
then why'd you let her go do it?
spreading too quickly. [house writes parasite on the board and crosses it off.]
kids are too sick and the blood tests show no lymphocytosis.
maybe a contaminated food or water source? psuedomonas.
[talking to kim and judy] we did a mri on all the babies and unfortunately we didn't find anything so we're starting him on the strongest antibiotics we've got and we're hoping that that'll take care of it.
[pause] his fever's up to 103.5 and his blood pressures 80 over 40.
[freezes up] ah it
kim's right. your son was born healthy. he caught the infection after his birth. there's no reason to think he got it from you.
i answered.
what they need to know is the future. got a magic 8-ball? [she starts to work on charts.]
not as tough as hearing it.
[pause] no. it's easier to die than to watch someone die. [she leaves foreman standing at the front clinic desk.]
the hartig and chen-lupino babies. their kidneys are shutting down.
if we leave them on both the antibiotics they'll die of kidney failure.
i still think it's the pseudomonas. i vote to take them off the vancomycin. [long pause]
your son's kidneys are failing.
we're taking him off vancomycin.
it seems to be a germ called pseudomonas.
we're hoping the aztreonam will clear it up.
we'll know in 24 hours if it's working. [judy and kim look very happy. cameron walks away from them; wilson is at the reception desk.]
i told them the truth.
i explained what was going on.
that's not how i see it.
so now it's about worrying about them yelling at us?
if their son dies tomorrow do you think they'll give a damn of what i said them today? it's not going to matter; they're not going to care; it's not going to be the same ever again. just give those poor women a few hours of hope. [she walks away from him.]
heart rate's 180.
can't hold bp with three pressers? we're losing pulse.
but chase should 
you're the attending.
there was no sign of lymphcytosis in the blood tests.
we could run gels antibody tests.
enteroviruses cause diarrhea and flu-like symptoms in adults maybe a rash but for newborns it can be deadly. it's damaging her heart.
imagine not being able to touch your own baby. [she goes out to karen and ethan.] can i get your guys' help with something?
your daughter her 
we need someone to hold maxine off of the bed while the nurse changes her sheet.
hartigs are checking out right now.
thanks.
and you haven't?
you can be a real bastard. [she leaves.]
her hands were red and swollen maybe she has a skin infection. cellulitis? that could manifest with tachycardia.
the eosinophils were mildly elevated sed rate's up a bit. could be looking at a systemic allergic response.
need a biopsy to diagnose.
candy canes. [foreman takes one.]
no! it's christmas and and i i i thought 
yeah. untreated only 33% of patients survive past a year; treated five years.
sister augustine? [pius hurriedly turns the tv off.]
oh um this one's the bed control [she gives pius another remote] and that one's the tv control. i'm dr. cameron and that's dr. chase and dr. foreman.
we're not sure what's wrong yet. you'll have a chest ct scan this afternoon that will help with the diagnosis.
you don't trust him?
i don't tell patients bad news unless it's conclusive.
about churg-strauss not about what happened in the clinic.
i don't believe in god.
it's normal sister. it's just a few more minutes. [pause] i believe in a higher order that's in control of what happens but not one anthropomorphic entity called god that's concerned with the everyday workings of you and me.
it's always about you foreman.
no not necessarily. it could be something else. thyrotoxicosis or a carcinoid.
i'm coming sister. i gotcha i'm coming.
there's no smell 
she's seizing!
her immune system is severely compromised.
her immune system is severely compromised. two doses of prednisone wouldn't do that.
that you reacted so strongly to the prednisone let us know that you had an underlying problem with your immune system.
not the underlying condition?
when we were looking at the differential diagnosis with dr. house we were considering 
you did what you felt you had to.
maybe house was right. maybe there is an underlying condition that explains the symptoms something we haven't considered.
it could be a metabolic disorder.
mitogenetic.
i'm just saying 
might be right.
not yet she's too reactive. she'd test positive for everything. we need to stabilize her isolate her from all possible allergens. give her system a rest.
we'll call you if anything changes.
i got it. [they insert a breathing tube.] i'm in. [they start to pump air.] breathing's stabilized.
i just wanted to say that i know that you did everything you could.
i was just being nice.
merry christmas. [she hands house a present. chase enters.]
can we get her records? what hospital was it at?
oh my god!
you took a history?
if it's a reuben that's the way he likes it.
[ standing up to shake hands ] allison cameron it's nice to
happy birthday.
i was going through your mail and it was on a form. happy birthday.
no  i save that for emergencies. i told them she bled out two units and if it happened again she'd die.
i think they're choosing a movie.
the clotting studies so far are normal.
vitamin k would explain the bleed but not the clot.
what about another drug interacting with heparin an antibiotic like ampicillin? that would 
[ looking at notes ] two months ago she complained of a sore throat. and he got her ampicillin.
he just said she didn't take it. what is it everybody lies except for schizophrenics and their children?
she's awfully calm.
there's a little bit of scarring not much not enough to con
congratulations you win.
actually no one wins.
solid mass. cancer.
she needs a transplant.
she's a 38 years old she's a mother...
why don't we just say it's zero then we don't need him at all. tumors grow they don't shrink.
how temporarily?
you really didn't know.
your birthday.
it's a birthday. it's an excuse to be happy. you think that's lame?
i'm just waiting for the surgery.
i'm sorry. it was very very wrong.
i'll pass it on.
porphyria.
what about that copper thing? what's it called? it's genetic  the body accumulates too much copper.
she didn't keep it. she never kept another appointment with a shrink he made after that.
wilson's presents with cataracts i think.
she's been averaging 18 hours of sleep a day since her admission.
it's not clinical depression.
three er doctors two neurologists and a radiologist have all figured out what its not we need to figure out what it is.
none of them are willing to subject themselves to you.
the blood work showed no signs of inflammation and no one can figure out what's actually the cause of--
what?
and?
nice try but you're a misanthrope not a misogynist.
are you questioning my ability to take a history? [house just looks at her] what's the primary--
diseases don't have motives.
why?
elevated sed rate indicates inflammation.
no other systemic signs of inflammation probably not vasculitis.
patient's never been outside the united states especially the tropics.
doesn't matter blood and c-sub smears show no sign of parasites.
some tumors are almost impossible to see unless we know exactly where to look.
yes.
try to remain as still as possible. the less distortion there is the more we'll be able to see.
i know you're scared i would be too.
she's seizing! get her on her side. i need some ativan!
she's having a seizure.
come on elise!
we would have seen improvement by now.
he hasn't left her bedside.
her mother died of it.
there are molecular similarities between brain cells and tumor cells. paraneoplastic syndrome causes the body's own antibodies to get thrown off track. they end up attacking the brain instead of the tumor.
i'm sorry i know it's uncomfortable. the tighter we go the better the image will be.
don't worry it's almost over.
i'm sorry.
a lot has changed since your mom died. don't worr-- don't give up.
the mri and mammogram only showed a few benign calcifications.
he went down to the gift shop to buy a shirt. i told him i'd stay up here in case you woke up.
i send my laundry out.
[curt] no.
[smiling now] let me guess. you've already found him.
what?
i'm assuming he came back the next day to apologize?
i guess.
[adjusts the pillow] you've been in this bed for a really long time. we're gonna do the same test we did last night ok? do you know what day it is?
its probably just a mild skin irritation i'll get you some hydrocortisone in a minute. do you know what day it is?
i'm gonna get you that cream right now.
elise calm down i need some haldol 5 milligrams. there's nothing there elise. there's nothing there! [elise continues to scream]
onset immediately after ivig isn't.
which she never had.
no then she'd have respiratory symptoms.
did he just turn on the tv?
for a diagnosis of tularemia you need a four-fold increase in serum antibody levels. to measure an increase you need a before all we have is an after.
it has to be one of these two conditions. i say we take our best guess and just start treatment. or treat both.
[smiles] get over it he rides everybody.
so we start with the safer treatment.
not surprisingly.
you do?
her husband has never been to africa either.
i think ignoring respiratory symptoms is more likely than cheating.
they're completely devoted to each other.
they love each other.
you want me to ask a man whose wife is about to die if he cheated on her?
you don't trust me to do my job?
and how exactly do you re-formulate have you screwed around?
yes.
you pulled my medical records?
you were curious. like an eight-year old boy with a puzzle that's just a little too grown-up for him to figure out. [stalks off]
right next to you. two down two to go.
no doses. you have about twenty more days of this fun.
about four a.m. i pulled the short straw. [checks the monitor] flow rate looks good. no rash or flushing
four a.m. do you not remember just asking?
elise? elise? elise? elise! [starts gently shaking elise]
[shaking a little harder] trying to wake her.
in the middle of a sentence.
patient's not responding. pulse is fine airways open. check her blood pressure. [shines a light in elise's eye] pupils are reactive.
she's not responsive to pain. come on elise!
i don't know. [looks at the monitor realizes] she's in a coma.
the patient doesn't have tularemia.
it's tough to say. it's a good sign that she hasn't gotten any worse.
she knows you're always there for her.
it means she made a mistake.
[hesitant] yes.
[quietly with a hint of tears] spanish.
i'm re-calibrating the centrifuge.
i'm not crying.
i told the husband he was a jerk.
[hesitates] when i was in college i i fell in love and i got married. and
it lasted six months. thyroid cancer metastasized to his brain. there was nothing they could do. i was 21 and i watched my husband die.
why?
or hating people.
a heart can be replaced a brain can't.
yeah sure. [ed leaves the room with his suitcase. elise starts to cry. cameron catches up to ed] what are you gonna do? were you always honest with her? do you know how lucky you are? your wife is alive she loves you!
she loves you.
hi how you doing?
do you know where your dad is?
maybe its shigellosis.
unless someone screwed up the test.
this room is way too clean for a teenage boy.
this is gonna be a racial thing isn't it?
he's not addicted he has to take drugs.
he's in pain--
you really never did any drugs?
deflecting a personal question with a joke. gee who do i know that does that?
maybe we should all pitch in and get you a nice cane. you've already got the matching gym shoes. [foreman looks at his shoes. cameron finds a jar in a cabinet] check this out! mom's not too careful with the homemade tomato sauce. when the top sticks out like that it's a sign of bacterial contamination.
source of botulism as well as a million other toxins that cause gastroenteritis cardiac symptoms and mental confusion.
[makes a noise of disbelief]
do you have a death wish?
pesticide poisoning.
inhalation or absorption?
we should wash him down. the poison could still be on his skin.
maybe we're wrong about the pesticides.
are there any stronger treatments for the organophosphates?
what's the success rate?
great minds think alike.
i'll check into it. [leaves]
i found the pesticide. it's disulfoton. and it's empty. he used the whole can.
no. we've got a problem
his names chi ling. he was admitted twelve minutes ago. identical symptoms as matt. chase isn't sure he's gonna make it.
they live 10 miles apart. apparently they don't even know each other.
high school has no idea what could have happened.
same school different grades different cliques different everything.
their classes aren't in the same building. they don't even eat lunch in the same lunchroom.
sir we need to test the bus for chemical residue.
it's not a symptom.
we're not sure yet if it was done on purpose
did you happen to notice if anyone was doing any spraying near the bus route?
the county's worried about west nile so they sprayed ethyl parathion right next to the bus route.
i hate sports metaphors.
we really think the hydrolase is the only-
ms. davis your son is very sick. he won't survive a transfer.
right look when my grandmother got sick-
i know how hard this is for you.
i can't imagine being in your position.
actually they sent a doctor. to tell you that if your son doesn't get his treatment there's a good chance he'll die.
no. it's on you. you gotta do better. right now yes or no?
figure it out. [walks out]
get her outta here. get her outta here!
the only thing they have in common is the bus.
in a case that bad more like 1 1/2 to 4.
you think each kid got poisoned in his own house? two separate exposures?
because acne cream contains lanolin which could have pesticides and you're thinking they both bought the same product which-
deodorant could contain lanolin.
fleas flea powder.
chi uses old spice.
lucky kid. floral air freshener.
johnson's over here. matt's mom would make him use air freshener.
just check.
no matches on flea powder underarm deodorant
i'll check
[finds detergent] tko.
liquid 128 ounces.
-environmentally safe formula. it's the same!
as long as you don't wear any more poisoned pants.
almost none he seems to be stabilized.
transverse myelitis.
breath sounds?
mucus plug?
start heparin. 500ccs iv push.
he saved his life.
his thyroid levels were a little 
it could be wegener's granulomatosis. [a woman in a skirt suit that would make cuddy proud walks in.]
[looking at the paper] it's a restraining order. you're not to come within 50 feet of john henry giles and they've asked the da to file criminal charges for battery. [slight pause]
these are criminal charges. they aren't going to let you take blood to make more tests.
you're diagnosing wegener's based on a little inflammation?
but you don't --
are you asking us to jeopardize our medical licenses for this treatment?
progression of the paralysis pretty much confirms hamilton was right. it's als.
he could have suffered a stroke when he was intubated. [foreman looks at her.] well blood clots are common in intubated patients. the inactivity causes 
you gonna take it?
you already have the most prestigious fellowship.
house would let you out of it in a heartbeat.
i'm not like you. i don't hate house.
what do you want from him? more hand-wringing more torment? you want him to cry himself to sleep at night?
it was a stroke!
house called it. the arm and legs are unrelated.
embolus. the arm problem's caused by a clot.
you all right?
the sludge is blocking the blood flow to the part of the brain that controls your arm. all done. you still okay?
you're saying he just spontaneously got better?
how do we figure out which drug is doing the trick?
one of those drugs is helping him.
he'll walk again.
and if he doesn't get better?
his lungs aren't great. it might cause another respiratory collapse.
what levels?
he has to. if he doesn't he's telling foreman he needs him. house can't handle that. [she looks closely at the screen.] oh my god!
arteriovenous malformation.
it's not there.
background noise static.
the twitch could be a mini-seizure unrelated to the diabetes.
a twitch could indicate a brain tumor
[muffled noise as if about to be sick]
no tumor nothing. her brain is clear.
and the chrysler building's in new york.
[doesn't sound convinced] a cactus in philadelphia?
did you change her banana bag?
stats down in the 80s and dropping.
so far we've heard from three hospitals with records of victoria matson. seven visits going back two years.
the pin in her arm went in during an er visit. she wasn't conscious so they didn't get an address. the other visits she gave fake addresses.
last winter jefferson hospital in philly got treated for frostbite.
and depression. they put her on prozac.
because wilson asked house to do him a favor.
[with a sigh] oh you boys.
but that's the treatment for a tuberculoma.
the prozac we've given her could have triggered serotonin syndrome which would explain the fever.
so's the chest x-ray.
still growing. nothing on gram stain. it looks like meningitis.
oh my god. she was sedated.
unlikely. by themselves neither one would do it.
[looks at test results draws in breath looks up without a smile]
[quietly] how much time does she have?
16-year-old mva victim. he's been in and out of the hospital for three weeks with internal bleeding no one can find the cause.
it's been three weeks 
the crash didn't cause the bleed.
she saw his blood she got distracted and she crashed his dad's porsche.
he was 
kid's got hemolytic anemia. [house and cuddy turn to look at her.]
it wasn't inherited. the problem's outside the red blood cells.
no. [house looks at the chart himself.]
no fever no white count.
barely above normal.
we could account for the lack of fever and white count if it's lupus.
a lot of meth.
cancer?
shouldn't we narrow it down before we finish?
cocaine and meth are very hard on the blood system. has he had any erratic behavior?
she obviously cares for him.
i'm sorry. mr. foster we're going to test keith for drugs.
[voiceover] his hair will tell us any drugs he's taken in the past sixty days. it's kind of like rings on a tree.
have you been sick?
have you been out of the country?
[voiceover] it could be an infection. we're going to give him a gallium scan just to be safe. we inject a radioactive isotope into his bloodstream and we check to see if there's inflammation anywhere in the body.
has he ever complained of any joint pain? sensitivity to light rashes
any relatives ever been diagnosed with lupus?
in simple terms the body becomes allergic to itself. the immune system attacks healthy cells in the circulatory system and destroys them.
it can be manageable.
[voiceover] we can test for the antibodies. 95% of patients with lupus test positive for ana.
what about bruising? he ever complain about tenderness under his arms or his groin?
he's a teenager. [pause] what type of cancer did your wife have?
it's his lymph nodes we're concerned about. we're going to do a biopsy to check for lymphoma.
nothing.
is it fuzzy or 
coumadin would dissolve the clot fix his eyesight.
it can happen in lupus. increased platelet count can cause blood clots.
what's going on?
right. clot slips off travels through the artery and gets backed up in the eye.
ast is 859 we're getting him to the icu.
his son's dying and you're mocking him?
no it wasn't.
is proving cuddy wrong worth all this? [she leaves. house has to lean against the wall again.
he's in pain.
he's been without pain relief for seventy hours 
hemolytic anemia doesn't cause liver damage. add the fact he's coughing blood you've got three of the indicators of organ-threatening lupus.
you really think he's got hep-e?
all right. then let's start him on iv cytoxan and plasmapheresis.
but there isn't a treatment for hepatitis-e. either he'll get better on his own or he'll continue to deteriorate.
if he's got hep-e that's only going to make him worse!
so you want us to lie?
why me?
this is a mistake.
i don't want to lie to him.
and get fired?
i've got to do something the kid needs treatment. [cameron goes into the elevator but holds the door open' button.]
you really think house is losing it?
we're recommending a drug called solumedrol.
the tests are never 100% accurate.
um they don't fit any of the most recent symptoms.
i don't think it's hepatitis. i think your son has lupus.
i told him that you wouldn't treat him for the lupus until 
he said he wanted to transfer keith to another hospital.
that's what i told him.
yeah. he agreed to do it your way.
if there's no hep-e we'll start treatment for lupus immediately.
he's hallucinating. [chase and cameron try to keep his arms down.]
keith we're in the hospital. keith there's nothing on you.
he's had a major bleed. bright red blood per rectum.
we need an angiography stat!
hallucinations are a symptom of psychosis which is the fourth diagnostic criterion. it's official. this is lupus.
it doesn't matter what he's hallucinating about it matters why! it's lupus!
yeah and a 16-year-old kid shouldn't have hemolytic anemia or be bleeding out of every orifice but he is. we had an opportunity to treat this instead we diddled around with hepatitis-e and now it's too late. he needs a new liver. we screwed up.
yes.
no i didn't.
yeah i trusted you.
lupus is normally treated with medication but in keith's case the disease is too advanced.
you're right and i'm sorry.
he needs a new liver.
i'm afraid so.
dr. house you should get back to your office 
i don't think this is lupus. come on let's just go 
family history is asking about family members meaning people related to the patient. let's go.
dr. house come on let's go 
this is not a cat allergy.
they've only gotten worse.
i think you should trust dr. house.
inr is down and his blood count is climbing. it means you made the right call. his liver is healing. he's gonna be just fine. [dad hugs his son and pam grabs keith's hand. the dad grabs pam's arm too and everyone is happy.
test him again it's gotta be cancer. [foreman walks through the door quite suddenly-poof!]
cancer. it first attacks the bones and then the kidneys.
you want it to be his kidneys because if it's his kidneys then maybe we can treat it maybe we can fix it. and if it's cancer then he'll never pitch again. if this were a regular guy who came in and broke his arm lifting a box you would've packed him up and sent him home!
stop.
he let himself go.
should we save the sample? dr. sportsfan can put it in lucite and hang it around his neck. [smirks]
i think so. [foreman grins triumphantly] oh friday. no i'm sorry i have to go to that oncology thing-that seminar.
what's going on?
arnie? claims he has 500 lawyer jokes only tells one?
dr. house! [she and foreman catch up to house] he tested negative for steroids.
he tested negative for steroids. i um i have a couple 20s on me. [reaches into her pocket]
he tested negative for steroids.
shrunken testicles indicate his body's not putting out enough testosterone.
[rolls her eyes] steroids.
he tested nega-
haven't heard yet.
oh my god!
that's not even funny!
no of course he-
i didn't say that. [foreman's phone rings]
foreman says we've got a problem with the transplant.
would you give up a baby for someone you love?
is this a pragmatic question for you?
[quietly] i couldn't do it.
do you have to be religious to believe a fetus is a life?
i don't know what they are. [seriously?!]
you asking me to go with you?
like adate?
no i-i was gonna go to the oncology dinner
no. i just found out he canceled like two weeks ago. [house's expression changes to shock; he leans back in the chair and registers this. meanwhile cameron comes to the door frame.] so[she makes a weird face] what do we wear?
his heart rate is 130 and rising like a randy johnson line drive.
there's no point in doing the transplant. even if he was stable enough it's obvious that we have no idea what's wrong with him!
heart rate's down to 40.
now it's down. last time he went out at 35.
think she'll abort anyway try to force his hand?
[gives him a strange look] that's funny?
i was the first person he ran into he justasked me.
exactly. except for the date part. [chase chuckles again. sharon comes over toting a glass of wine.]
three days of sun and scuba and one hour of lecture. [house suddenly comes out of nowhere and walks up to the table]
she buys lunches! she doesn't-
how could they have gotten exposed to that much cadmium?
that was amazing!
you ever been married?
usually means industrial ventilation systems convention centers. he's twelve years old.
fungal.
twelve-year-olds don't have sex.
new jersey it's most likely lyme disease.
we're collecting fluids from the rash.
we're checking to see if your son has a tick bite.
mr. reillich we need to 
yeah radiology is just 
what's it made of?
parabronchial thickening.
slightly widened. oh god it can be transmitted through infected animal hair. but the gram stain would have shown 
we've gotta get this kid on levaquin.
i don't think so. we switched him to rifampin and there was no change in swelling.
the rash hasn't turned black yet. no necrosis no anthrax. [house is watching this like a tennis match.]
anthrax weakened his immune system.
death by dermatitis. [rowan is already in the room.]
uh he has clinic duty this morning.
yeah but he re-rescheduled himself.
auto-immune.
it's not likely but it is possible.
auto-immune is a big universe. it could be anything from scleroderma to churg-strauss.
and 100 mg. of cytoxan it treats most auto-immunes.
and his fever's back it's back over 105.
what kind of brain process would cause a paralyzed hand skin lesions and swollen throat nodules?
you know parents are never as bad as kids think they are.
i'd make an excellent step-mom i'm very lenient. [pause] he's your father you never see him and he's here. unless he's done some unspeakable thing you should lighten up.
okay. he beat your mom. he beat you. [no answer] what did he do?
all this hate. it's toxic.
burger's disease.
nothing else happened.
thalidomide?
dr. house i know the chances are very slim but i'm sure you recognize that she may have what you had: a clot in her thigh.
i don't know eric. if her disc were herniated she'd present with pain elsewhere wouldn't she? [at this point foreman is looking at cameron like she's an alien chase is looking at her like she's something on the bottom of his shoe and house is looking at the whole thing with mild interest.]
you're right a clot's also the most deadly right robert?
dr. house i believe that they're right and 
what?
dr. house are you saying that she doesn't have a clot or are you saying that if she does have a clot she doesn't need blood thinners and an angiogram?
excellent suggestion.
it's not necessarily bad news.
we should introduce ourselves. it couldn't hurt.
robert what was her sedimentation rate?
do you mind sharing that number with me? [foreman and chase try to stop from smiling.]
are you mocking me?
i'm just suggesting we look outside the box. what if her sed rate is elevated?
my aunt elisa lives in philiadelphia.
her normal temperature is 96.2 not 98.6 like you and me. if her temperature were 98.6 she'd have a fever. i'm just wondering if you think we could apply the same logic to carly's sed rate.
if 15 is high for carly then she has inflammation.
maybe it's worth looking into 
foreman did a thoracentesis to drain the fluid from her lungs. they sent the fluid to the lab it'll be back in a few hours. you'll be happy to know that chase's mistake didn't cost her. angio revealed no clot.
thoracentesis revealed a transudate. [wilson looks well amazed.] we did an echo. she's in severe congestive heart failure. she needs a heart transplant. we'll get her on the list immediately 
he's not gonna fire you.
that's house. he knows things.
they just stopped carly's heart. and your dumb patient 
mr. van der meer he scheduled an appointment to see you.
i wanted you to know chase is worried you're going to fire him.
dr. house if you were in his position wouldn't you be more likely to perform well if you were reassured and 
i'm not doing anything.
people dismiss me. because i'm a woman because i'm pretty because i'm not aggressive. my opinions shouldn't be rejected just because people don't like me.
do you? [dramatic pause. house stares at cameron blankly.] i have to know.
[quietly] okay. [she walks away.]
any recent history of head trauma? bad car accident fall?
did house seem weird to you?
we spoke about how we felt.
no of course not.
i asked him if he liked me.
because i like him.
doesn't matter he doesn't like me.
patient history indicates he was hit with a tire iron in 1996. brother says he was changing a tire and it slipped.
lfts are slightly elevated.
i'd release him.
i'm disagreeing because that's my medical opinion.
no completely different symptoms than the first time.
normal albumin levels point toward acute.
did you see house's new car?
you don't mind the hospital taking money from vogler?
that's worse. vogler's money came with strings.
i'm sure house didn't know 
septic?
no. he's only 30 years old and his job doesn't expose him to heavy metals or environmental 
we're going to have to get him a new one.
cross off hemlock.
grows wild by the highways out here.
chase has a big mouth.
i don't think that he would --
i don't have the right to show interest in someone?
let me check. [house goes to look at the chest x-ray.]
18. you got that from the white count?
two weeks ago. [house leaves.]
flat and taut.
we can't give him interferon now. there's still traces of the lozenges in his system. it'll just poison him again
nothing. [they leave leaving house staring at the whiteboard.]
mr. arnello. he's awake. he wants to see you.
we have a referral from dr. linkowitz.
he knows you.
heart attack.
the patient's ten.
that's what the er thought. three ckmbs were positive the ekg shows classic signs of st elevation. it's a heart attack.
it's not a drug overdose. the fatigue muscle pain and difficulty concentrating have been bothering her for over a year.
what about metabolic syndrome x?
which is likely considering her weight.
it's not house it's vogler. we can't let it get to us we've got to stick together.
what are you suggesting we start slashing each other's throats?
no but it's similar. msx patients don't respond normally to insulin which causes her body to create too much which causes metabolic abnormalities. we're going to do a test to be sure but there are certain dangers.
it's controllable through proper diet and exercise.
i know you've already seen several nutritionists 
i understand but 
it might be but the only way we'll know is if you'll let us do this test.
i'm sure she's already under enough pressure.
everything in society tells us we have to be thin to be successful.
i think we should be telling our kids it's fine as long as they're healthy.
just a little bit longer and you'll be done.
just five more minutes okay sweetheart?
she's gotta be getting hypoglycemic.
i apologize if we weren't paying full attention to your daughter but i assure you that 
more likely to cause a stroke not the psychosis.
right because anything's possible but nothing's going to cause multiple clots in a kid this age.
obesity doesn't cause blood clots.
right after they get liposuction which she's clearly never had.
because we have her medical records. and because no plastic surgeon in his right mind is going to give a ten-year-old liposuction!
thank you.
her tox screen was negative.
her mother wouldn't give her diet pills.
and your goal is?
if you're feeling guilty about your decision there is an easy solution.
then why approach me and tell me all this?
thank you. [cameron walks away and cuddy confronts vogler.]
i can't believe she was that desperate.
i'm not talking about the shoplifting.
no one forced a cancer patient to get cancer.
from where?
diet pills don't cause skin necrosis.
or not.
highly unlikely. we started her on heparin before the warfarin.
yes i did not screw up.
you were standing right there.
yeah right. there's gotta be some other cause.
making me look bad is not going to save your job.
you think that i am that weak that i am just going to roll over and take this?
vogler wants to know what he can do for me.
[still at her microscope] correct all you want. of course it's a bit more productive if there's an actual mistake.
i gave her the heparin which means the necrosis is not a reaction to the warfarin which is probably why she's not responding to your treatment.
yet.
[turning to look at him] i'm the only one who's always stood behind you when you've screwed up.
because i'm not insanely insecure. and because i can actually trust in another human being and i am not an angry misanthropic son of a bitch.
no one.
if everyone took a pay cut and put in a few more hours we could all stay for the same amount of money.
figures you'd stall and refuse to deal with the issue. problem is the world doesn't go away just because you want it to. [house leaves and cameron goes back to her microscope.]
maybe because we're treating her for the wrong thing.
no.
can we talk?
i'm not here to apologize.
do you want to fire me?
it's the only reason i can think of that you're insisting that i made a mistake.
you're doing this because you can't deal with your feelings for me.
you're the one being different! you're always pushing things pushing the rules pushing us but not this time. you just jumped on this idea like a life raft. not one question about what else it could be no riding us for other answers.
then why aren't you watching tv? or playing your damn game boy or whatever else you have fun doing by yourself? maybe i should just quit. make it easy for everyone.
is that really you?
chase has nothing to worry about?
what happened?
eastbrook pharmaceuticals are pleased to announce that dr. gregory house will present the latest research on their exciting new ace inhibitor.
press release. doing an address at the north american cardiology conference. [chase looks at the screen from behind cameron.]
so what's the deal? you get to keep all of us if you plug his products?
thank you. for the speech.
i know it's hard for you 
dr. house. i just wanted to 
i want you to know how much i 
do you know why people believe in god?
i don't.
do you think they pray to him and praise him because they want him to know how great he is? god already knows that.
[smiling] i thank you because it means something to me. to be grateful for what i receive.
idiopathic t-cell deficiency.
you hate whole body scans.
i hate sports metaphors.
looks complex. central necrosis?
what's up?
that's kind of a sad question.
i don't think that's why you're asking. i think it's because of the speech.
then why are you asking? what do you want to hear? [she walks closer to him but house leaves.]
there's gotta be another way to diagnose hairy-cell.
htlv and atlv.
so you're basing your diagnosis on a disease that's relatively common and a drug he took thirty years ago.
i'm guessing you did take a couple extra vicodin.
you don't need to worry about firing anyone. i'm leaving.
no.
i'm protecting myself. you asked me why i like you. you're abrasive and rude but i figured everything you do you do it to help people. but i was wrong. you do it because it's right. [near tears she extends her hand. house looks at her hand and around the room but doesn't take it. she withdraws her hand.] there are only two ways i can deal with things. one is in my control. that's to leave. [house looks like he might say something but doesn't.] goodbye house. [as house still doesn't look at her she walks out the door.]
it's daytime.
got a new cane.
why are you here?
what? what happened?
the way they were was kind of weird.
what are you saying? literally?
why? [house's beeper goes off cameron crosses her arms.]
could you look at your pager? [house looks at it.]
you should go it's important.
why do you want me back?
that's it?
not for me. go deal with your plague. [she closes the door and locks it.]
you're interviewing? i thought you'd just have them send a headshot along with their cv.
i can't come back i told you that.
right.
right. i already accepted a position somewhere else.
yule at jefferson.
why?
not good enough.
dinner. and not just a meal between two colleagues. a date.
yes.
see you tomorrow morning.
i won't. [she closes the door.]
i work here.
house practically begged me to come back.
same lousy salary.
blown pupils usually means brain stem edema.
the jaw.
no the jaw tells us why we can't do an mri. unless we want his jawbone flying across the room.
nothing you'd be interested in.
he agreed to go on a date with me.
he only committed to the first two.
and you're so young.
it's my boss. i'm allowed to sexually harass my boss. i'll arrange for the emg [to chase] you want to set up the angiogram and [to foreman] you get the blood samples patient history patient consent? [cameron leaves behind a smirking foreman and a faintly disgusted chase.]
nerves stimulate muscles to move by creating a small electrical current. the machine will measure that. and i will insert this needle into various muscles and ask you to flex. sometimes it can be painful. let me know and i can pull back 
okay. put your arm out to the side. [harvey extends his right arm and cameron sticks the needle into his upper arm. harvey sighs and the arm begins to twitch.] you all right?
raise your arm up over your head. [she takes the needle out of his upper arm and moves it to his forearm. harvey almost smiles.]
the emg was clean.
aneurysm would have shown on the angiogram.
oh my god! what the hell are you doing? [foreman and cameron pull annette away.]
his vitals seem okay.
you actually dated someone who likes to get burned? [chase nods.]
shut up.
it was probably a good thing.
you still think chase is wrong?
if we put him on blood thinners he might bleed out.
about tomorrow night.
i didn't see any reason to. where are we going? i want to make sure i dress appropriately.
i'm not sure if that was the deal.
i'll figure something out.
we could give him anti-depressants see if he changes his mind.
except that's forgery. also illegal.
his parents were accountants maybe there's an obit in the trade papers.
maybe they were bad accountants.
harvey's school registration.
annette raines.
high school yearbook. [she raises her eyebrow seeing chase with all the collars.] think this might give us a clue sherlock? [chase takes a couple packs of tic-tacs because he is all of a sudden concerned about his breath.]
i'm sorry to have bothered you. thank you. okay. [she hangs up her phone.]
they're gonna show up at the morgue.
gee i wonder what this is going to be about.
i will be fine. everybody's acting like i'm going out with jack the ripper.
you're worried i'm going to break his heart?
[putting on the corsage] it's beautiful. and you look very handsome.
i've always loved this restaurant.
my mom's. thank you.
i'm not expecting you to be someone you're not.
[setting down the wine list] according to freud and i'm paraphrasing instinct of love toward an object demands a mastery to obtain it and if a person feels they can't control the object or feel threatened by it they act negatively toward it. like an eighth-grade boy punching a girl.
that you're getting in touch with your feelings.
sorry no. i have one evening with you one chance and i don't want to waste it talking about what wines you like or what movies you hate. i want to know how you feel about me.
how's the surgery going?
it was fine how was your evening?
or the wine. something made my eyes puffy.
it was the wine. we had a nice candid conversation.
i guess when we talked about you guys.
i don't know.
maybe we should go back to the blood thinners up the dosage.
infection of the jaw?
so how do we confirm?
you have tendonitis.
i need to know everything about you. [as the camera pans out we see the player's entire family is in the room with them.]
i went back three generations: no history of cancer parkinson's or any other degenerative condition. but there's this boy at school and he's on the boys' volleyball team and they made out at a party and now he won't call her back and this friend of hers at school said this boy didn't like her and never did.
i think she's depressed.
she has tendonitis.
she's depressed for the same reason she has tendonitis.
no the boy's a jerk she knows that and yet she's depressed. i found a nodule.
[nodding] i'll run the tests.
four vials of the crofab antivenin. hey how you doing?
[taking the vial from the nurse] thank you. this will start making you feel better really fast. [she starts to push the antivenin; 5 seconds after she starts the farmer starts to choke.] he's having an allergic reaction bag. [she starts to ventilate.] paddles and epi.
it's not going to stay that way. [the monitors start to beep.] paddles!
we're going to start you on thyroxin. it'll make you feel better and level your moods.
i'm sorry. what did i do?
i promise to be very careful. [she gets ready to insert the needle and the player flinches and yells as soon as the needle touches her skin.] susan!
susan i barely touched you! [she tries again and the player screams.]
i'm sorry i'm sorry i have to get this blood. just hold on.
hypersensitivity to touch.
lab over 16.
kidney problems.
gave it to him with high-dose steroids. nothing's working.
her neck looks clean. no adenoma.
[from the doorway] muscle death.
nothing wrong with a consult.
the mri revealed an osteosarcoma: a cancerous tumor in your femur. it needs to be removed surgically. with chemo she has an excellent chance of survival. but i have to warn you depending on how large the tumor is and how ingrained it is the surgeon may need to amputate your leg. i'm sorry.
you find it more comforting to believe that this is it?
tummyache cranky no apparent source. any thoughts? foreman you gonna contribute or you too tired from stealing cars? [foreman looks up from his bowl of cereal.] i'm being house. it's funny.
previous tests revealed nothing that would cause abdominal pain or the mood swings.
who does?
the woman you used to live with.
you believe her over the patient himself. that's why we're taking this case.
what happened to everybody lies?
we cted your abdomen. nothing that would explain the stomach pain. [mark gives a you see? look to stacy who sighs.]
it must be awkward being treated by a man who used to be involved with your wife. [pause]
mras were clean which means he's probably fine. he doesn't seem paranoid he shows no signs of 
[as foreman walks off again] you're cutting him open?
no i just think it's premature and maybe irresponsible to do exploratory surgery before we know he's actually sick.
all we have is his wife 
the patient doesn't even think he's sick. why would he consent 
there's nothing there. [house follows cameron's eyes to what she's really looking at: a 3 empty bottle of whisky.]
that's not peristalsis. that's abdominal epilepsy.
early onset alzheimer's. the worst.
we'll check his blood for alzheimer's protein markers.
[checks the history] parents died in a car crash. no history of dementia.
i took a complete medical history.
you're not interested in the medical history. you're a peeping tom trying to spy on your ex.
you know about his parents. what about further back? grandparents uncles aunts how's their health? [stacy rolls her eyes.]
mostly likely candidate right now is alzheimer's. [stacy thinks about that.]
any family history?
you were with house? when it happened? to his leg?
we went on one date. it didn't go very well.
what was he like before his leg?
he's clear. no alzheimer's.
fake name fake prescription.
said no. champagne tap. no red cells no white cells serology's negative.
i told her he didn't have it. the marker tests were negative.
so we either fight it for him or it's fatal.
that's our hope but the brain's tricky. you never know. [house looks at stacy stacy looks back.]
mark what you're feeling it's not real. it's the virus. [mark starts to choke; cameron looks into his mouth with her penlight.] mark? his throat's closing up he can't breathe. code blue! [nurses rush in.] he's having a reaction to the ivig i need epi stat! [she tries to tube him but he keeps jerking around.] i can't get the scope in his throat!
he's having an allergic reaction and he's crashing!
if you give him hematin and you're wrong he dies today.
yeah.
then you need a court order.
[holding out her hand] give me the syringe.]
it's still yellow.
what?
dr. house? how's he doing?
i thought you were too screwed up to love anyone. i was wrong. you just couldn't love me. it's okay. i'm happy for you. [she walks off.]
