i can get you out of here.
judge's order for your immediate release.
we have a crisis. which is good news for you. you're out tonight on conditional parole. the condition being that you're employed by me at ppth.
your patient is two lungs in a box.
and it only has 12 hours left. no pulse no body. no ability to answer questions. it's your perfect patient.
donor's an 18-year-old college kid back from hofstra. goes to a homecoming party with his buddies hops on his motorcycle ends up an organ donor. asystole in the e.r. no pulse. no blood circulating. his heart liver kidneys were all toast. surgeons had the recipient on the table when they realized the lungs had increased airway resistance. the team closed her up put the lungs in suspended animation. buys 24 hours to fix it 12 of which have passed. we still have no clue what's wrong.
icu isolation room. the transplant team will meet you there with updates from the past two hours.
how about you drop it in your office?
get this straight. you break the law you go back to jail. scam extra vicodin back to jail. flout my authority make the hospital look bad back to jail. i own you.
see that would be an example.
she gave her notice the day after your incident. took a job<U+0097>
ortho needed more space. you're this way.
no idea.
pathetic. the first thing you said to me was you don't want your old environment. the fourth thing you said was where's my old environment? it's been a year taub chase thirteen all moved on. the world does that sometimes.
here's your new office. and there's your new team.
(shaking hands with the police officer) thank you officer.
you're allowed to be at the hospital. you're allowed to go home. that was made clear.
those consultants in my office are only costing the hospital 100 bucks every minute i keep them waiting. why didn't you just tell me what you were doing?
i might have cleared it with the cops.
house.
getting you out of jail was not a popular decision with the board. i need you to solve this and i need you to do it without making me look like i can't control you. for both our sakes. (house nods)
no. you can't leave the hospital.
i vouch for you to the cops you take some parole-violating detour celebrating your freedom justified of course by some absurd theory connecting it to the case.
i don't trust you house. i can't.
not absolutely. not outside the walls of this hospital.
use the people already on the case.
we don't have the money to pay them.
you only have park because she's on neurology's tab. you are making minimum wage.
get out of my office please. (house leaves)
what round of chelation is this?
on this case. unique situation. oxygenating?
great. is house okay?
increasing to 100% fio2.
blockage? clot in the line?
hold the analysis and help me save this thing.
if you're right calcium channel blocker should relax the artery.
(pushing the calcium channel blocker into the iv line) we'll know soon.
saline flow is rising. vasospasm's relaxing. left lung is pinking up. good job.
nothing.
what are you testing for?
promising. when your dad showed up unexpectedly house have a hand in that?
his version of a compliment. (park nods) i spoke to the head of neurology in chicago. i gave you a good recommendation.
lawyers say i'm not allowed to. it works out well for everyone.
excuse me?
you applied for the job. you asked me to call and recommend you.
i can't discuss any of that not before the hearing. but if you're having doubts about chicago i can call them back.
iron?
(looking at the monitor) classic presentation of infection.
if you stay we have to have a hearing.
(coming up behind house) house!
got something for you.
i found your stuff in storage.
this is all you get. ortho still has the outer office.
you're welcome house.
what's your evil plan?
it's been earned.
my theory is that you're running a battery of tests to convince him that you saved his life then con him into funding you to hire back your team.
this is your new reality. you've got your office. you've got neighbors. you've got one employee one volunteer. until she finds actual paid work or gets sick of you.
what about thirteen?
not taking your calls?
discharge the patient.
dehydration. he was given fluids and he got better. and i'm sure your tests have come up negative or you would have shut me up already. which means he goes home.
you've got two choices house. you can recognize that your patient is just a very nice healthy guy and send him home or you can consider altruism a symptom. in which case you cannot take his money. (walks out)
being a live donor has risks.
this kidney thing is the only evidence you have that he's sick. i'm gonna let him be a donor. (wilson and foreman walk out)
you're off the case.
you dosed him. couldn't stand to lose him as a patient so you faked his symptom to prove you right.
house i worked for you for seven years. i know how you operate. so when i see symptoms magically show up right when you need them<U+0097>
what'd you give him?
you're off the case. you no longer have access to this patient. (walks out)
now. [he enters and walks toward his desk.]
from a corporation that's going through a very public belt-tightening. means this donation was given under duress. patient didn't tell me the whole story but he did say he'd be thrilled if we didn't cash this. [he rips up the check.] got a policy review meeting in here in five minutes. good-bye.
what are you doing?
get your hands off me. [house let go and leaves the office. he winks at foreman on his way out.]
go.
yes.
i hope this isn't going where i assume it's going.
we had a patient who was going to die without an avm embolization. andrews was the only neurologist i could reach. he told me had a few glasses of wine and that he shouldn't do it but he also said that you were good. you were ready to do one as long as you were supervised. so we agreed that he would come in but wouldn't touch the patient.
been working for house for two weeks. it's already too long.
a skin resurfacing laser is missing.
because you work for house.
i have no idea. have you seen it?
it's a very expensive machine and i'd like it back. please tell me if you hear anything.
$200000. he took it.
park's hearing's about to start.
we have convened the disciplinary committee to decide the appropriate action that should be taken against dr. chi park as a result of her actions on october 7th of this year. dr. park do you have an opening statement.
she's not yours to fire.
seriously house?
my apologies. [he sits down.] my apologies dr. park. dr. house's comments will of course have no bearing on this hearing. please continue.
so you do realize that it is unacceptable to hit someone in the workplace?
congratulations. you're not going to jail today. but you do know i just can't let this slide. you need to keep up your rep.
okay. 12 hours a week.
and 3 times 2 times 2 is 12. i know about your deal with adams.
this check is for significantly more than what i told you it would take to fund the department.
as the new dean of medicine i'd like to personally welcome all of our new employees and ask why the hell do you want to come back?
he hasn't changed.
about that about the crazy stuff?
couldn't have said it better myself.
not spy. i'm trying to keep house out of prison. to do that i need to know what he's doing and planning.
come on guys. i am your boss. you do have to treat me appropriately. but it doesn't have to be awkward and weird. outside of work i still consider us all friends.
no!
why?
[walking the circuit around the front desk with wilson] what's house up to? he hasn't asked me for anything. he's been incredibly well-behaved. he's doing his clinic hours.
and you know him as well as i do. he needs to constantly establish he's the alpha dog.
you really believe that he's content? i don't want to let house sabotage himself by sabotaging me and i need your guidance and your trust to do that.
house is here and apparently prepping for an operation that will probably kill a patient.
there is. he needs a transplant.
that falls under natural causes. if you kill him we're looking at
not as far as our lawyers are concerned. i'm not being a dick. this is a real issue and i have to worry about the big picture now.
it's healing itself.
you have one patient and three dna results?
chase basically called me a sellout.
i hung it up because someone had to run this place after cuddy left.
more to it than you think. for example you're looking at monkey dna. [he turns the lights back on.] my analysis house took your results after he manipulated you into providing them.
glad to see taking a year off didn't dull your skill set.
about the other night i have enough problems with this job. second-guessing my best doctors shouldn't be one of them.
shower. i haven't left the hospital in four days.
house won't go home. and there's no way i'm leaving him here unsupervised.
how the hell did i not see that? i'm glad you're back. [he puts on his jacket.]
(looking back at house) i'm in a meeting.
yeah i paged you which means you're next.
(turning back to his conference call) that's a good start. let's go through it point by point. first up
(closing his laptop) i'll call you back.
(taking a large envelope from his desk) just got this. the american association of rheumatology wants you to speak 9:00 saturday in atlantic city. dr. neusinger canceled on them at the last minute.
this is a big one and it's the premium slot. i'd like you to do it. i'll clear it with your parole officer. what do i need to do for you?
fine. just one thing. i'm gonna ask them to put you on in the morning. we're doing them a favor. why should you have to spend the night?
the place will be a madhouse especially since it's two miles from the rubio fight at the exact same time. nice try. you called up pretended to be neusinger cancelled and suggested yourself as a replacement. you go to that fight you go to prison.
better go do some of those clinic hours i recently doubled.
no.
you're right.
no. i get why he wants to go to that fight. i'd love to go myself which is kind of why i have to stop him. my job is to be the jerk. house has to believe that i have authority over him.
i know which means you can't go either. (wilson sits down across from foreman) your job is to be his friend to stay here and sit with him and watch the fight on pay-per-view while bitching about me. if we both do our jobs we might actually get him through his parole.
[enters with a blue file folder] got a case for you.
patient had an idiopathic anaphylactic reaction. it stumped two e.r. docs and an immunologist from johns hopkins.
14-year-old girl intermittent attacks.
where have you been?
i did. unfortunately the patuxent river naval air station was gps testing and disrupted the signal at the exact same 45 minutes you weren't here.
i admire the creativity. but what happens when the stunt doesn't work? think you're gonna have to pay off a bet? think i'm gonna triple your clinic hours? i'm gonna call your p.o. and you're gonna go back to jail.
does it limp?
'cause next it'll be three cases then four. then animal cases and ghost cases. then animal ghost cases. assuming of course we are talking about house.
he has a lot more to lose than i do and he knows that. he's rational.
he's the most rational man i've ever met. annoyingly so. he isn't gonna put himself back in jail over a dead kid.
he'll back down.
cuddy threatened him with clinic duty. i thought threatening him with jail would be different.
i'm still sending him back.
which means it's too late for me to back down. it's no longer my choice. it's just me telling him he can get away with anything. i have to send him to prison.
[long pause] what would cuddy have done?
[sighs] cuddy's not here anymore. you got 30.
thinks he had a heart attack but didn't. his ekg cardiac enzymes and catheterization are all normal.
it's not anxiety. the e.r. docs interviewed his wife. she confirmed he's been feeling fine. nothing out of the ordinary at work or at home.
which is why i had them admit him anyway and treat with alprazolam. no improvements.
because for some patients the diagnosis of anxiety disorder can actually increase anxiety which is also why i told him he had a minor respiratory infection that was easily curable by the medication. (house gives him an incredulous smile)
i ruled out heart attack and anxiety disorder.
i know. (hands house the file)
i had no choice. i knew house wouldn't take the case unless i ruled out anxiety.
to keep me from lying to patients?
i'm not looking for excitement. i'm doing my job part of which is to make sure house does his.
two lunch offers and a box of cupcakes since this morning.
these are supposed to be in the computer files.
then find someone who does. i got to get out of here.
eric. nice to meet you. and you can tell taub that he's gonna get the same treatment as this heavy bag if he doesn't cut this crap out.
you know i'm sure you're a nice person and you have no idea what you've gotten sucked into but really i'm not interested.
taub it's foreman.
what's going on?
tell me about it.
oh my god. who is that your roommate?
you have a boyfriend?
no some guy almost caught me making out with his wife in their living room.
if you hadn't been screwing with me and put the idea in my head
unlike you i don't need drama. i like my job and i'm happy with my life.
stay out of my business. (walks away)
diphtheria.
cool.
had a meeting about a new parking validation system.
hey.
thanks.
thanks but i got a lot of work i need to get done.
okay.
hey. changed my mind. okay. (hangs up)
hey.
she's a pharmaceutical rep and this is a working breakfast.
chris christie recommends the pancakes. [leaves]
i owe you.
neither did i. anita she's fun smart. not looking for anything serious. it's-it's pretty perfect. except for the gnawing guilt about the husband. the lies she must be telling him.
aren't you supposed to be pointing a finger at your own life as a cautionary tale?
hiring a hooker to pretend to be a social worker?
apparently someone identifying themselves as dr. pujols called and said the patient ran off.
i've informed social services of the mistake and given jane doe's description to the cops. they'll track down the parents.
you should have told me you were treating an underage clinic patient.
now i'm giving you the gift of additional clinic hours.
[smug-er] you've got nothing on me. check your phone.
i'm not gonna let you blackmail me house.
ohh. unfortunately that's not why we're here. remember that guy from the restaurant yesterday?
he's got pictures of us. he's threatening to show your husband.
not one of my best people. we've gotta stop seeing each other.
what? [she smiles.] why?
and he was okay with that?
why would anita tell her husband about our affair?
'cause i'm hurting him.
yeah but he didn't know that. which means he wasn't really hurt. yeah i know it's a rationalization but it went a long way to making me feel a little less guilty about seeing her.
right.
it sort of does for me.
no. i was thinking maybe you could tell your husband that we did.
yes.
i don't know. i this just feels wrong.
and every night. she broke it off. it's for the best. i'm not really an affair guy after all.
i'm not like you house.
show no sign of stroke or structural lesions.
no broken bones no signs of trauma.
no enhancement on the mri. i just don't know what to do. [pleading] please. you have to help me solve this thing.
it is crazy but house doesn't do crazy just for crazy's sake. if he thinks this is the only way to help your patient
i wasn't. the heparin decision didn't have anything to do with the outcome.
house is brilliant. i give him the benefit of the doubt most of the time because i've seen what he can do.
i suppose so.
he said you walked out.
apparently you were. said he'd have his decision tomorrow.
house stop.
it's good to see you in the hospital as a patient if not as a doctor.
how you doing?
not what i meant. if you need to talk to someone a professional
fine enough to get back to work? you don't have to work for house but you do owe me 20 clinic hours.
buys you whatever you need. but i know you. if all you do is physical therapy and your nighttime version of it you'll lose your mind faster than you regain those fine motor skills. (chase sighs)
you slept with your patient? you're off the case.
she's still sick. if she dies we'll be in the middle of a brand-new investigation.
i gave you time leeway and you decided to do whatever the hell you wanted.
unfortunately yes. (he leaves)
40 year-old water treatment worker with pyrexia and double vision.
i don't think it's such a bad idea. a little more structure in your department couldn't hurt.
so don't do that. it makes sense to have someone in there with a little more accountability.
are you seriously angling for a job that you mocked its fate the whole time i had it?
you just don't want anyone else to have it. this'll be great.
there will be mps stationed at every entrance to the second floor as well as outside his patient room.
make sure your ids are clearly visible. i'll speak with the cafeteria staff about showing more disrespect. 20 year-old male generalized tonic-clonic seizures. army docs scanned for structural abnormalities. eeg was normal. so was<U+0097>
let me know if you need anything. like a transfer.
i told him that and he told me that option is still less damaging than giving the kid a national platform.
fraud. great.
so instead of defrauding the court you'll waste their time? no way a judge classifies a personality disorder as a mental illness.
(to house) talk to you for a minute?
until you receive a clean bill of health i'll be authorizing all treatment orders.
i was hoping we can get a diagnosis before the witch hunt.
patient isn't in enough pain.
for clarification no one's getting fired. who else has a pitch?
cover for intra-abdominal sepsis and treat with antimalarials.
so he has all the signs of malaria except the antimalarials aren't curing him.
you tortured them to torture me just to see who you could trust?
been paging you for over two hours.
eight-year-old boy was brought into the er last night with acute respiratory distress. [house grabs a pack of chips.] no history of <U+0097> [foreman pauses to pull a dollar out of his pocket which he puts on the counter to pay for house's food] <U+0097> no histories of asthma or allergies and his chest x-ray's clear.
kid's been having night terrors. woke up in the middle of one in full respiratory arrest.
does great in school. the parents are divorced but it was amicable. and the dad's moved out of state.
the dreams are about an ugly old hag trying to strangle him. [house turns and looks at foreman interested. he pushes the elevator door open with his cane.] the family's hmong.
why not? as long as he doesn't feed the kid anything or put anything on his skin that we haven't verified is harmless what's the problem?
as long as you get the mom and shakira to consent. it's no different than having a priest or rabbi lead a prayer vigil. the mom is scared and confused and desperate for anything that'll give her hope.
and why would that make me happier? [house didn't see that one coming.] you're not going anywhere and we're not ratifying their beliefs we're respecting them.
i'll talk to the mother.
i understand that but you have to understand that we're a hospital not a temple.
no you won't. he's sick. we can't let him leave here. i'm sorry you really have no choice.
give me 24 hours.
we got a case. (he starts handing out the files) six-year-old with a nosebleed and breathing problems. she was born with a rare mutation of at.
this is dr. elizabeth lawson. she's a developmental geneticist attached to jhu and an expert on the girl's condition.
she knows more about her daughter's genetic condition than any of you. she'll be an asset.
this isn't a request. use her.
a trial of one is basically irrelevant.
there's a reason for fda requirements. a study at jackson memorial<U+0097>
was. i just spoke to him. his team just linked the use of lex-2 to renal failure in mice and rats.
he tried to cut open his own skull. head ct and tox screen were clean.
no prior history of mental illness and before you say it was caused by antivirals i've already ruled that out. plus cotard's doesn't explain the paresthesia in his hand. also treiber won't let any other doctor near him. he trusts your work.
i didn't say you were off the case. sit down. [chase obeys.] ordered a cardiac mri. [he hands the team files.] enlargement of the left ventricle suggests an infiltrative disease.
we'll start him on corticosteroids and do a cardiac biopsy to confirm.
treiber's too good to not take the right precautions.
in his condition?
it's a needle in a haystack.
biopsy his heart.
he's not quitting.
he'll get over it. fibrosis has to be a response to an infection.
he didn't leave after he got stabbed in the heart. i think we're okay.
find anything?
you've got everybody worried about your quitting.
if i was here as your boss you'd be suspended by now.
maybe there's a reason you haven't left. you need structure. and support. somebody else calling the shots.
we've both seen it work. either you rise to the challenge and quit or you stay. as a team member.
treiber's comatose.
so what? psychosis abdominal pain pleural effusions enlarged heart coma.
no fever.
would've seen it on the heart biopsy.
i'll give you your own team.
it's about time.
(following house) hey. you know management research shows that the best ideas come from casual contact. (house stops and turns toward foreman) so (he gives house a large envelope which reads hockey season starts now) one set of season tickets. got the seat next to you.
i'm trying to show you there are other people who care about you.
what's this?
don't you think you're being a bit premature predicting house's demise?
he's going through a rough time but so far he's been handling it<U+0097>
house.
glad to see your emotional turmoil hasn't dulled your powers of observation. i know you're responsible.
what happened? something between you and house?
well uh i'll get these to frankel.
you are responsible. the past 20 years you've had three wives hundreds of colleagues thousands of patients. but you've kept that one best friend.
chemo won't make your life any better but caring will. enduring pain to do some good for someone you care about isn't that what life is?
this is matt johnson the hospital lawyer.
house i tried to keep this internal. the fire department handed the tickets to the police who contacted your parole officer. it's felony vandalism.
i'm sorry.
(pausing) six months.
i'm busy. call my office.
when is that not true?
you're asking me to perjure myself.
felony vandalism should have added another year or two to your sentence. it's a miracle the parole board agreed to six months.
[thinks then sighs] okay. but whatever cases you have you have to take them all.
where's house?
no one has seen or heard from him since two nights ago.
last time he went to prison he thought he had you waiting for him.
i think stupid is our best-case scenario.
you're stealing this guy's oxygen?
you passed on all your cases reassigned them to other doctors.
they were my reason for getting your sentence delayed!
you set me up.
why are you doing this? why are you risking destroying yourself?
no.
his suitcases are in his closet.
we did the right thing. [a phone rings. they go into the kitchen. house's cell phone is on the counter. foreman answers it.] hello? i'll let his accountant know. [hangs up] house no-showed on a hooker two nights ago.
wait wait wait. who's that? he called four times.
house has been missing for two days. we know he talked to you.
not if he's a danger to himself or someone else.
is this your douche bag group?
he hasn't been home but he didn't take anything with him not even his cell.
he always has his vicodin. there's no reason to call a shri<U+0097> his last patient was a heroin addict.
this is the address house's patient gave?
coroner confirms it's him. dental records match. [he collapses back against the wall.]
he was my boss. and my employee. and both times i learned from him.
