you can't quit.
but he cleared you to get your license back.
(sitting back and clearing his throat) i want to run the department.
he's not dead or sentimental and somebody needs to do it.
you reassigned us kept us on payroll for three months. you might as well give me a chance.
house was an egotistical pill-popping lawsuit magnet... and a genius. and i worked with him longer than anybody else. i can do this.
no idea but he's gone. so how about we focus on the medicine? (he notices that thirteen is looking at him) what?
hba1c looks fine. could be hypothyroidism.
let's run with it. look at that. no house the job still gets done.
treat for crps. prep the patient for spinal stimulation.
no. chase refuses to tell me. (he puts the ball back on the desk)
not permanent.
not like we haven't been working together for two years now.
he was... good. he was honest took responsibility. it was kind of weird.
she and taub are doing a spinal stimulation.
you know usually spinal stimulation is done with the patient in the room.
it's also not what we agreed on.
i'm thinking i should decide when it matters.
(taking the results folder from taub) i'll handle this.
vince i'm dr. foreman head of diagnostics.
i prefer to think of myself as genius 2.0. your blood tests ruled out mercury poisoning.
2.8. that means for every deciliter of?
your level isn't elevated enough to produce your symptoms.
based on ten years of medical training? i think you have crps. i want to try spinal stimulation.
if you don't want to get better i think we're done.
you're not interested in my medical opinion. i'll move on to my next patient. you'll move on to a doctor willing to run all the unnecessary tests and procedures you want. or you can stick around and be cured. makes no difference to me.
good thing i talked the patient into spinal stimulation.
we lucked into that discovery and we were wrong about crps. ventricular thickening plus neuropathy could equal lyme disease.
when is his new game coming out?
he's probably working nonstop. might be using more than coffee to power through.
no. we're gonna ask him.
obviously the procedure didn't go as planned. the heart problem was unforeseeable but i still feel responsible. i'm sorry.
you hacked my profile page?
we need you to be straight with us. we need to be able to trust you.
okay.
search his office.
no but i'm not sure.
but he didn't.
the patient?
i feel like tom brady's backup.
we should still check out his office talk to his coworkers.
and... thanks. oh and dinner tonight at 7:00.
already made a reservation for 7:00.
(to thirteen) you missed dinner. and a shunt doesn't require both of you.
not with normal nerve conduction. thrombocytosis.
we're going with thrombocytosis.
you're mad i didn't ask you to dinner? how long have we been dating?
my tone? i'm under a little pressure right now. how about giving me a break?
so now you're jealous.
i was complaining to my girlfriend. (they stop outside of vince's room. two men are in the room with him) who are those guys?
you called another doctor?
neither one of you have privileges at this hospital. please leave... now.
'cause he doesn't need one.
we considered that and concluded thrombocytosis is more likely. i'm starting him on hydroxyurea.
there are no signs of increased icp. i'm not delaying treatment.
fine. i'll set it up.
you told me to make my own decisions. i do and you stab me in the back.
express it in private. in public the team opinion is your opinion.
that's my job.
you would've done it for house. maybe you just don't want me to succeed. maybe you just want to kick me again for not asking you to dinner.
i may be a jerk but you're wrong. mri is clean. treat for thrombocytosis. (he leaves the control room)
i'm not gonna fire her.
i'm not being a wuss.
so you're saying this is my fault?
or we could stick with my original plan. we get drunk and talk about how girls are lame.
i brought you a doughnut. the florist was closed.
you know i'm sorry right?
that's a fantastic idea.
your boss won't mind.
(pulling his pager out of his pocket) no way.
i was wrong.
that didn't work last time.
the internet is a magical place. lymph enlargement makes me think polyarteritis<U+0097>
no point in treating the symptom and not the disease.
your stunt generated quite a few responses. let's take a look.
paraneoplastic syndrome secondary to spinal tumor.
you are possessed by the biblical demon legion.
otherwise it did fit. graves' disease.
you want us to spend the next few days shooting down every theory in the world or can we do our jobs and come up with one that works?
that your professional opinion?
if you had amyloidosis there'd be speckling on your cardiac ultrasound.
fine. i'll make you a deal. we'll do a kidney biopsy to test for amyloidosis. when it comes back negative you pull your case off of the internet and retract the reward. it's either that or i don't test you at all.
the internet was right. start him on dexamethasone.
you don't generally get an offer unless you're looking for one.
i lobbied to keep the department open so you could keep your job.
might be a few less after cuddy shuts us down.
it matters. what if i'm just not ready for this job?
okay.
vince. vince. vince relax. it's dr. foreman.
he's hallucinating 'cause he's burning up. amyloidosis wouldn't do this.
no. i'm not letting anyone else jerk us around. the masses were wrong about amyloidosis. they don't know about the fever. i'm going with light-chain deposition disorder. you okay with that?
we think you have a disease called lcdd. it causes protein to build up in your organs.
we can't definitely confirm the diagnosis. and our only chance of beating this would be to start you on high-dose chemotherapy. but i do have to warn you that in your condition it might kill you. do you want me to get you some more information?
no you don't. you're scared and you don't want to make this decision. my career is riding on this case... nowhere near as important as your life. but i think the best shot for both of us is to treat for lcdd.
all right let's get you out of this tub and into chemo. (he helps vince out of the tub)
stop the chemo. he's got fabry's disease. he was in the tub for an hour. his fingers should have pruned but they didn't.
(to thirteen) how'd you figure it out?
and that just came to you?
a 7. and that's stupid. you did the right thing. it's my fault you thought you had to go behind my back.
but you didn't 'cause you didn't want to fight again.
what if by the time we get adjusted we don't like each other anymore?
you sure? 'cause ever since i took this job we've been making each other miserable. i really don't think this is gonna work.
no. the other night when i thought i was done you were there. i need you. i don't want to lose you.
sorry.
he quit and i had to let her go.
yes. you two are both competent and i know i can work with you.
i need you.
you had no problem treating a guy on death row.
we weren't getting along with her working under me.
but you weren't her boss. and you've stopped working together.
'cause i wasn't. i know how this looks. i know it might break us up. but that's better than definitely breaking us up which is what would have happened otherwise.
hemorrhagic ulcers in the lungs.
you're back?
[forcefully] we haven't broken up. are you back?
did you get your license back?
fbi checked the service of process forms and his hotel room. no radioactivity trails.
he has a bug bite on his hands. malaria's endemic in his country. let's start him on coartem.
if you have something to say say it.
do you have anything medical to say?
start him on olestra. [chase and cameron leave.] you couldn't have just said dioxin up front?
i fired my girlfriend because he said he was gone for good.
and screwing me over as you go.
he's not ready. he doesn't have his license.
the only reason i let you go is because our relationship wouldn't work if i was in charge. but i won't be in charge soon so... i came to offer you your old job back. i know. i look bad. but circumstances have changed.
why not?
then why would i try to hire you back? can we please get some dinner tonight?
i checked. there's no lassa in dibala's country.
the rash is gone. it rules out your dioxin theory. he's running a slight fever which we can add to the heart plus the lung ulcers.
[to house] yes?
he's been to three other countries in the last two years: here zimbabwe and sharm el-sheikh egypt. no lassa there either.
no sleep disturbances. but fits best with the symptoms. [house's hand is raised again and he's making an urgent face like the second grader needs to go to the bathroom.] and it's geographically the most <U+0096> [to house] what?
i'll start the ribavirin. [he gets up to leave.]
no.
yes.
douglas owes me a favor.
i'd stand outside your apartment all night holding up a boom box except you told me you hate '80s music.
the bloody eye was from an enlarged lymph node blocking the retinal vein. we restored circulation but it means we've got to add lymph involvement to the heart lungs and rising fever.
why?
the heart could point to sarcoidosis.
staph aureus?
he's miming a thermometer. he says the fever's not high enough.
he's wrong. the fever could be misleading us into thinking infection.
talk.
it could all fit with lymphoma.
he's got good liver function. it's masking the elevated levels. biopsy the lymph node. check it out. [cameron and chase leave.]
they both really like diagnostics. and i think they both really like watching house torture me. anyway thank you for understanding about the job. i had two really crappy alternatives.
what's that?
we both would have lost our jobs.
they wouldn't have wanted to.
you want to go back in time?
i made the right decision.
you don't have some clever way of telling me this time?
based on his admission photo? bit subjective. fever points to infection. and now he's got nodules on his fingers. that's blastomycosis.
point to not prove. and his fever's too high. we have to treat him now.
this isn't a democracy. i don't care who you get. at least for right now this is my department. we're treating him for blasto. start him on amphotericin b.
[taking the results from cameron] i told you before this only points to scleroderma. it doesn't prove it.
blasto still fits best.
i've made my decision.
what does that have to do with anything?
switch him to steroids.
[gesturing to calm him down and keep him out of chase's way] it's okay.
got it?
get the paddles!
he's bleeding into his lungs.
hold on. there's a third.
i switched his meds. i thought i was wrong so i took him off the antifungals. put him on steroids like you said.
i was too late. or i was right in the first place.
he's under lock and key in the morgue. his government wants their own doctors to do the autopsy. they're taking his body out tomorrow.
i went down to the morgue to rerun the antibodies test.
turns out i couldn't get in. they had an armed guard. but i saw this. [he holds out a sheet of paper.] it's a sign-in sheet from the morgue. your signature. [chase slowly takes the paper from foreman.] 9:45 this morning. that's right before you guys ran the test. what were you doing there?
what case?
one of the patients in the morgue was a 70-year-old woman who had scleroderma. you and cameron if you took that woman's blood you could have messed up the test results so we treated dibala for the wrong disease.
[loudly] you son of a bitch.
[shouting] i don't care what he was going to do. he came to us and put his life in our hands.
i cover this up i become your accomplice. you think you can guilt me into that?
chase you really think you can kill another human being without any consequences to yourself?
then he's not my patient. you want to give me none of the responsibility and all of the liability?
when is he getting his license back so we can stop playing this game?
we made the wrong call he died. there's nothing to present.
and if they ask how the test was done?
routine lab tests don't involve blood you stole from a corpse to trick me into giving the guy the wrong treatment.
to cover for you not me.
that room will be filled not because of a coin flip not because of the patient but because house's department screwed up. they're going to be like sharks in a chum-filled swimming pool and there's no way i'm jumping in unless i'm in a steel cage.
i want to know you have everything covered.
obstruction would explain the pain. you think they just screwed up the old x-ray? [looks at house.]
it's a congenital disorder of the nerves in the colon. very rare in a child your son's age. most doctors would never think of it.
it's house's idea.
actually you're not going to taste it. [jack looks at the bag of liquid that cameron is now holding. he then realizes what's going to happen .]
you're going to want to take it slow. don't try to regain all the lost weight in one meal.
[shines a light in jack's eye.] right eye's fixed. lateral rectus palsy. [monitors start going off. jack starts seizing.] he's seizing. [yells out to the corridor.] need five milligrams of diazepam. [nurses rush in.]
hold down his head and turn off the lights. i need to see his optic disk. [someone turns off the light foreman tries to look into jack's eye.]
come on hold his head.
his optic disk is swollen. he's got intracranial hypertension. furosemide. 20 milligrams iv.
[over the top of cameron.] need five more milligrams of diazepam. dc the monitors. push 500 milligrams phenytoin.
we got to relieve the pressure or his brain could herniate.
[shakes his head.] page chase. tell him to meet us in the or.
[to roy.] we need your consent.
pressure in his skull's too high. if we don't reduce it it could irrevocably damage his brain.
we need to drill burr holes.
phenytoin's not working. paralyze him. three milligrams pancuronium. then intubate and hyperventilate. [they push him into the or where chase is scrubbing in.]
house isn't here. do we have your consent? do we have your consent? [roy watches from in the doorway as they get ready to lift jack onto the operating table.] ready? one two three. [they lift him on.]
[walks over to roy.] look at the monitors. he's still seizing. we need to do this now. [roy nods his head.] go.
intracranial pressure's declining. [chase puts a small tube into the hole.] come on. keep going. pressure's down to eight. [everyone looks relieved.]
i have no idea.
he hasn't had any more seizures and cytological examination of the subdural fluid showed no abnormalities.
he was fine after the procedure. no headaches. no mental status change. it wasn't anything we did.
notice anything odd about the shape of the fluid collection?
the edge should be tapered lens shaped.
we've got a problem. when cameron sent dibala's blood to the lab she specifically asked for the anticentromere antibodies test.
the printout they sent you included just the anticentromere antibodies but the lab also did a full blood panel.
you apparently didn't check its cholesterol. [chase looks worried.]
20%. [chase takes the report to look for himself.]
the same reason i did. because they're looking for anything we might have screwed up.
we can't. cameron documented that it was perfectly calibrated when she did the test.
i can't do this. i can't go in there and stack lie upon lie. you've got to figure out a way to explain this.
i'm out of here.
how can so much be wrong with nothing being wrong?
and so are the most recent ct scans.
and wouldn't show on a ct.
go scope him. get another set of biopsies. [cameron and chase leave.]
what are you talking about?
you talking about thirteen? where's she going?
i didn't stop her. i'm not going to stop her. i've already done all i could. now all i can do is move on.
one of his stomach biopsies shows an arteriole partially occluded.
we already ruled out infection.
seems like a sound reason.
it wouldn't explain the fevers.
start him on gabapentin. hook him up to an intracranial eeg for continuous monitoring.
what?
you want to solve a problem in the records by creating another problem in the records?
how'd you get access to the statins? you going to get someone in the pharmacy to confess to yet another record-keeping problem?
why would you steal a drug you could just as easily ask for?
a story that raises more questions than it answers only puts the hook deeper down my throat. it's all right. i'll handle it.
by telling the truth.
the truth is i don't have the time i'm not in the mood and i don't see the point.
this kid is dying and i've got house trying to push all his responsibilities onto me.
i wanted to be in charge not a figurehead.
you want me to get flogged? for what? so you can have an academic debate about a diagnostic dilemma no one's ever going to face again?
i just don't want to do the m&m.
not even close.
could be an allergic reaction to one of his meds.
and would've showed up on the dural biopsy.
except you can't have arteritis without inflammation.
it's barely elevated which you'd expect given the number of procedures he's undergone.
cameron and i will do it.
yes.
your son's dying from an incurable disease not bad karma.
call a code. he's flat lining.
yeah.
for degos?
but the biopsies confirmed...
you sure?
or she is. [picks up the phone.]
find what?
no. been here all night.
so?
no. and obviously you didn't either. which means...
75-year-old african man presented to our hospital following a rapid onset of hemoptysis. he'd been fine prior to onset. no chest pain fever coughing or chills... [cuddy is also in the audience. foreman's speech fades out as the music takes over.]
you saying we ignore three generations of cardiac problems?
[being boss] differential diagnosis for a genetic heart condition.
hospitals don't recognize de facto medical licenses. let's start with genetic tests. get an ekg cardiac cath and an echo to check the integrity of his heart.
so what now?
there are other things we can check.
skeleton of great-grandfather's in decent shape. subsurface genetic material from grandpa's fine leaving one bowl of purified dad.
the watch story was crap right?
you were avoiding the icu where dibala died. [chase goes to the grandfather's table foreman to the great-grandfather's.] i'll sequence the gene for the cardiac sodium channel.
i can move the patient to another room.
you should tell her. she's your wife.
and undegraded dna.
where's house?
if we're looking for something as subtle as a mutation it makes sense to get the dna where it's most pure.
if she's right... we save two people. [he nods to cameron who leaves.]
chromosomes for 28 cardiovascular conditions are normally numbered in structure. no translocations deletions or inversions.
no.
no. i'm alone. you okay house?
donny collapsed four hours after we discharged him. he's dead.
his apartment manager found him on the floor in the laundry room. said he wasn't breathing. he called the emts but it was too late.
whatever it is we all missed it.
you had good reason. patient presented with no symptoms and all his tests came back negative.
autopsy hasn't been performed yet. emts brought him to general but i requested they ship him back to our morgue for the postmortem.
donny compson age 39.
you can't perform an autopsy without a medical license.
opening postmortem incision. beginning at the midline of the sternum. [he slices down the center of donny's chest starting at the lower rib cage and moving up. there is some spattering. house leans over. he looks puzzled. foreman stops the saw and looks too.]
that's odd. it almost looks like he's... bleeding.
he was briefly conscious then his systolic dipped below 60 and he was out again.
obviously he wasn't dead. his heart slowed enough that the emts <U+0097>
it wasn't something he ate. it's something he already had.
extreme bradycardia could be caused by sick sinus syndrome.
what about a genetic predisposition to an autoimmune disease? isolated anti-ro antibody could cause complete heart block.
so aside from him being an idiot what else have we learned?
actually he told cuddy he wasn't ready to work.
apparently.
bone cancer could trigger a paraneoplastic syndrome which shuts down the heart.
gamma survey would locate the tumors.
navicular's also clean.
i'm gonna tell you the same thing i told him... talk to your spouse.
miscommunication in the brain stem mistakes nerve pain for tooth pain.
carbamazepine fixes him.
we put him on steroids. he didn't respond. it's not autoimmune.
it is possible the liver's so far gone the labs look normal. it's worth a shot.
sixteen year old girl suddenly has the joints of an eighty year old. think we can we discuss this for a second?
(speaking about the test) contrast is ready.
maybe this is house's way of telling her to talk to her.
ok.
(looking at the monitor) no sign of obstructions or clots. (he leaves the control room)
what if food is the answer? not this food. any food. jordan says she ate all of this. she's 16 all about body image and she obviously worries about fitting in.
okay.
what?
where'd he go?
i'm stopping you right there. this is a conversation you should be having with chase not me.
no sign of tears. it's not bulimia.
no.
you shouldn't you should believe him.
bp's dropping.
no pulse. (he starts performing cpr)
blood constricted her heart muscle. she's on antiarrhythmics but we don't know how long we can keep her stable. seemed to be triggered by stress. her parents had just <U+0096>
acute conditions limit us to toxins infections.
you might remember stuff she doesn't.
turn to your right.
she can't control it. a bleed in her brain is affecting her thalamus causing her to lie. we need to know everything. you two were never apart?
you don't know?
and she told you she went to get ice?
it's not rufies. she's bleeding behind her kidneys. we're transfusing another two units packed red cells but she keeps springing leaks.
not gonna get the truth out of her either.
we need to know the truth.
yeah. he'll recommend we take the cautious approach.
140's acceptable. let her talk.
that's enough.
before you do that look here. (he points to the monitor) increased periorbital blood flow throughout. it means everything she's been saying has been a lie.
sorry.
it's foreman. i'm trying to update house but his phone's off.
patient's losing blood faster than we can transfuse. cameron did an online search and found out keener travels with his dog <U+0096> we're treating for rickettsia. any idea where he is?
three-month-old with fever incessant drooling and chronic muscle weakness.
or... an infant as limp as a rag doll.
doesn't matter who they side with i'm still in charge. we're taking the limp three-month-old.
house is back in charge. we get to treat a porn star.
uh... we'll miss you.
since i'm guessing you don't take their word for it. all right i'm gonna need you to lie on your side and put your knees to your chest. any history of alcohol or substance abuse?
[prepping for the lp] you're married.
she happy you do porn?
hmm. you ever get jealous when your wife's working?
you're gonna feel a little pressure. [hank inhales deeply] any history of sexual abuse?
have you ever suffered depression or psychosis?
looks like tetany. your muscles are contracting.
need some meperidine in here.
and neither of them wants to work here.
cerebral vasculitis would explain both the eye and arm findings.
house thinks it's cerebral vasculitis. if you could just do the brain angio while i finish up the blood work <U+0096>
he's got me running every test and treatment by myself.
[taking a step closer to chase] you owe me this.
uv rays made the patient's capillaries more fragile hastening the onset of d.i.c. sounds like sepsis <U+0096>
looks like quite a trip.
no.
you're a great doctor. house is right to want you in the mix.
i'm saying that shouldn't be an issue.
i don't want our work life to have anything to do with our personal life.
none of that has to <U+0096>
actually you can. i was the one who had the problem. i don't anymore. [he leaves.]
patient's liver's not working. we don't have time for your little team-stakes.
history and genetics are spotless. plus every time he had a bad cough as a kid he went to a doctor.
no jaundice. wouldn't have ocular effects.
don't listen to house.
i know that house is manipulative. i know that you're in a vulnerable state right now and i know that cameron wants your marriage to work. so do you. so don't listen to house.
[looking at the screen] what's that mass? gallstone?
his liver's completely filled with worms.
what if it's lymphoma? peritoneal carcinomatosis explains the liver failure. paraneoplastic syndrome explains everything else.
you okay?
be a lot easier once you two are away from here.
heart rate's up to 250. he's going into cardiac arrest.
he's bleeding out.
he's been off 'em since yesterday anyway.
i'd say aleukemic leukemia. marrow's not making enough normal cells <U+0096>
ablation could kill him or leave him defenseless against an infection that could.
why are you here?
guy's white.
ttp's a better fit.
we're cool okay? nobody's angry nobody's hurt.
you all right? sorry. i know you're not okay. i mean...
any chance of reconciliation?
sure you don't want to grab a drink after work? figured we could talk about the perils of dating doctors.
i'm sorry. i didn't mean to <U+0096>
that's what you said about the dibala incident. and obviously you didn't.
ct would've picked up something.
otis campbell.
the mnemonic for toxins. o for organophosphates t for tricyclics i for insulin
the unstandard tox screen was as clean as the standard one.
with pedestrian alcoholism. liver biopsy can wait until after thanksgiving.
he left a message on the machine. he's not coming in today. so what causes kidney failure?
no bone pain.
start him on immunosuppressors and dialysis.
he's not answering his pager. looks like he's leaving it up to us.
lavage has removed all traces of dxm from his body.
i assume you didn't marry her for her skill in applied physics.
you really think you'd be happier with someone who could spell better?
yes he is. he's just smarter. give him some time. i'm sure <U+0096>
his body is going through withdrawal. he's adjusting.
bone marrow malignancy.
house.
ferrous oxide contrast?
accessory spleens.
he isn't dying anymore. found out he was on a popcorn diet. eating ten bags of microwave popcorn a day. huffing the fumes scarred his lungs.
bacterial infection?
coming through. house got a new case.
[sitting back down] it doesn't matter if this guy's a drug dealer or not. noise-induced vertigo means ear or brain. head c.t. was clean so i'm thinking acoustic neuroma. we need to do an a.b.r. to test his hearing.
impedances look good. starting at 13 clicks per second at 50 decibels. check this out. [he hands taub the paper he picked up in the office.]
slightly delayed but nothing significant. that's what sticks out to you? house is clearly screwing with us. it's a fake paystub.
there's no way she makes that much money.
airway's clear. need a crash cart in here!
at least we know his ears are okay.
which means we can stop the bloodhound gang routine and go back to being doctors.
normal urinalysis. kidney's impalpable. [to thirteen] is... that a new watch?
how much money do you make?
i want a raise.
i know that you're paying me less than everyone else on the team.
now that they know i'm making less than they are they'll never respect me.
it's not fair for me to make less than the people i supervise.
shot me down.
i'll wait for my review in august.
[stopping] what?
she told me i needed leverage. so i told her about an offer i had to help run the neuro department at mercy.
there is no other job. i bluffed. she called it. i'm not gonna beg to be underpaid. i'm leaving when this case is over.
you were wrong. m.r.i. revealed no sign of a pheochromocytoma which means mickey's stress is just stress. we're back to vertigo and fever.
i don't see how this is relevant.
so vertigo fever and thrombosis. we've already ruled out cancer and infection. he got worse on steroids which suggests it's not autoimmune. so we're stuck with environmental.
we should just pick the top ten possibilities and treat for all of them.
albuterol is not helping. patient started coughing blood.
those look like mycotic aneurysms. indicates a fungal infection.
we need to start him on antifungal meds before he drowns in his own blood.
give it a few hours. i'll be back to check on you.
the phrase who's your daddy? comes to mind.
27 year old female intense intermittent ear pains saw six doctors
did i mention that the 27-year-old female is really hot. and her husband is really not
not unless social workers have begun pulling in the big money recently.
to a healthier diet raw foods lots of nuts.
that's great. a co-worker confronted our patient. altered mental status. basically accused her of poisoning him. we think he was projecting.
we'll treat with beta blockers.
because she's a successful happily married consultant and he's a crazy drunk weirdo who we just tossed out of the hospital.
if you had any evidence it would be <U+0096>
because it's medically irrelevant. he was drunk she was sick.
(to thirteen) you'll do it.
well i am.
maybe that's why i'm asking you to do it. (thirteen leaves the room)
(entering the control room) you're testing her for a brain tumor?
lateral frontal cortex broca's area <U+0096> so what?
(looking at the monitor) there's nothing in the paralimbic system amygdala.
we're not gonna be able to get an honest read on her unless we figure out a way to get the husband out of there.
and what are you getting out of your marriage?
tertiary syphilis can cause pseudopsychopathic syndrome and cardiomyopathy.
you've gotta do something about thirteen. she flouted both my authority and yours.
which just aggravates the problem. she'll do it again. next time it won't work out so well. you gotta punish her.
i'm also her ex which as you know makes it a little complicated.
it was the only way i could <U+0096>
and brain.
protein levels kidneys arrhythmia. could be paraneoplastic. i'd say lymphoma.
great so you cast a spell and magically fix her kidney so she can give us some urine to test.
not enough for a completely accurate reading.
we have zero feelings for each other.
(appearing at the door of the room) dr. hadley. get out here now.
you're acting like an idiot.
and she'll fail unless you're stupid enough to go in there and scream at her.
if she made them anonymously the case goes away. if she used her name we all back you up it goes away. you're completely overreacting.
i'm doing you a favor.
i'm sorry.
for firing you.
then i'll apologize anyway. i did it for me. not for you. i realized that right after i fired you. but i couldn't admit it. screwed everything up. i hope that we can still work together. (foreman's pager goes off and he hurries out of the room)
something's wrong with her liver. blood flow is backing up spilling into her esophagus.
this isn't lymphoma. we don't know what it is. we can wrap bands around the veins but the bleed is so bad that might not work. i want to try something called a tips a shunt that makes the blood bypass the liver.
it should help preserve her liver and heart. the liver cleans out toxins bypass it too long she'll get brain damage eventually die. that's still probably less dangerous than bleeding out now.
you gotta step up now.
i can't discuss <U+0096>
either way you gotta do it right now.
too much kidney failure.
how about a family member?
heard about the diagnosis. nice job.
discharge summary. taub's handwriting isn't helping much. apparently on the third day of admission the patient underwent rabbit thumping.
ah.
er also tested for steroids. he's clean.
the negative test at least means steroids is less likely. we should discuss other possibilities.
repeated head trauma could damage the base of the brain leading to a pituitary adenoma which leaks gnrh.
how do you know about that?
is that all?
i have work to do.
house next time <U+0096> marcus.
what are you doing here?
what job?
you were wrong about the steroids. patient had a paroxysmal tachycardia. we cardioverted him back to sinus rhythm. we're gonna get an ekg and a sestamibi scan. marcus... let's talk outside.
you can't work here.
i'm not playing.
let me explain something. this man who's offering you the job <U+0096> he's not a philanthropist.
he doesn't want to help you. he only wants to use you to screw with me.
trust me it'll be better for both of us if you go back in there and tell him you can't take the job.
well figure something out... 'cause you cannot work here.
you told him about our conversation?
our patient could have a pfo.
pfo's not urinary. it's a heart issue.
[sighs] i did not wet the bed. i spilled a drink.
why are you telling him these things?
oxygenated and deoxygenated blood mix the rough flow causes a clot explains the heart and head.
hank gathers? that's not what happened to him.
[laughing humorlessly] seriously? because my brother remembers a basketball game?
i'm not arguing that he shouldn't have a job. i just don't want him having one here.
[sighs and sits down] you know what my brother did the last time he got out of prison? he stole money from my parents to buy drugs. he robbed a liquor store. then he moved on to jacking luxury cars <U+0096>
every time. i've known my brother for over 30 years. you haven't even known him a day.
rheumatoid factor is negative.
you're kidding me. you got him a desk?
lymphoma's a better fit. we should remove his spleen.
his big game's coming up. we don't have time to biopsy wait for the pathology report and resect.
that won't treat for either lymphoma or takayasu's.
what are you doing here?
you're not an idiot. don't do this.
mom and dad gave you a chance and a second and a third. i'm not about to give you a 54th.
we have to keep going until you start feeling something.
if i do that that's all you'll be thinking about. then you'll be telling me that's what you're feeling. power of suggestion.
what gave it away?
something wrong?
means lymphoma's most likely but that's actually good news.
because it's treatable. we can remove your spleen tonight laparoscopically.
we can get to the radiation in the off-season.
[looking at the monitor] liver's inflamed. so the itching wasn't caused by his spleen.
no abnormal t cells or b cells. it's definitely not lymphoma. liver biopsy only revealed nonspecific inflammation.
that never happened.
it wasn't.
[not smiling] polymyositis would explain the head liver heart even the white fingers.
sorry to interrupt my character assassination with boring medical stuff but when we drew the patient's blood it clotted right there in the vacutainer.
he's been working out in the cold doing two-a-days. it's got to be cryoglobulinemia.
your blood contains an abnormally high volume of certain proteins called cryoglobulins. they become thick when it gets cold outside. it's like a car trying to run after the oil's turned to sludge. we think that's what's been causing all your problems.
this oil change isn't so quick. we have to put you on blood thinners and other medications. the process will take two to three weeks. but after that you should be able to play without a problem.
if we wait and let him play there's a good chance he dies right on the field.
first of all i'm not interested. second i don't even know where you guys live.
what are you talking about?
about three months ago.
i didn't talk because it isn't anyone's business.
marcus don't.
our patient needs a fresh iv [leaves]
that means you're getting better. but it doesn't mean <U+0096>
did your team doctor realize you're on blood thinners?
you're still sick. you're not ready to go off your meds.
the treatment doesn't work that way. [daryl stands there. foreman steps aside.]
why are you risking your life for this? your mom doesn't want you to.
you okay?
actually i'm responsible for that. [he's walking down a street looking for an address he has on a piece of paper.] spiked his water bottle with nitrates dropped his blood pressure robbed oxygen-rich blood from his brain making him blind. figured a temporarily blind patient is better than a permanently dead one. vision was already coming back by the time i dropped him off at the hospital.
i'm busy. [he hangs up.]
you need a job. maybe i can talk to house see if i can get your job back.
maybe i can help you figure out something else.
don't do that. let's just... see how it goes. [marcus nods slightly.] so uh do they mandate you to stay here at the halfway house? or can you come stay with family?
why can't we find it? we've looked everywhere inside this guy.
we found a liver match.
hourani's not the problem. house is. now he wants chase to do the surgery.
to prove to thomas that chase was his department's best surgeon.
chase wants to do the surgery.
i don't care who does it.
in order to get our patient into the or we have to get him on the surgery schedule. in order to do that we need someone to put him there who neither house nor thomas can overrule.
you plan on doing any work today?
[handing house a file] 28-year-old female sudden unexplained coagulopathy.
she's a blogger. i can't see her photos being anything but digital.
apparently you did it multiple times over a course of days. can't be too certain.
you can't convey a tone of voice in writing.
we were wrong about the rat poison.
she has elevated cholesterol.
she had a fish dinner a couple of nights ago. could be haff disease causing rhabdo.
so does haff disease.
get her inside.
and the biopsy confirms it was full of abnormal cells consistent with lymphoma.
we've postponed putting in the new valve.
our dean of medicine has approved an experimental treatment. we use your unique cancer cell signature to create a targeted lymphoma vaccine.
based on people in situations like yours... maybe a year.
denial's not unusual for a first reaction.
if it is denial she needs time to process. if it's a symptom hopefully treatment with the vaccine will help.
i appreciated the inscription about the benefits of prayer before medical treatments. and i think it's great that you have been called to witness by the lord.
whatever he's onto doesn't change the fact that she has lymphoma and we gave her a dangerous vaccine. we need to <U+0096>
your appendix was full of cells that showed a lymphocytic atypia. we now think they were a granulomatous buildup from some unknown cause.
unless we figure out what's causing your liver failure... you have three or four days.
well we're past denial.
maybe we didn't cause the fever.
yes but it persisted after we took her off the vaccine. what if it's a new symptom?
means the problem's either in her heart or lungs.
what about rising blood pressure from binge drinking? it could set off a hypertensive crisis cause heart failure.
e.r. drew blood cultures <U+0097> all negative no parasites no fungus.
if she was infected through the intestinal tract she'd have intestinal symptoms.
the dissection means we were wrong about alcohol causing a hypertensive crisis.
yeah. you were the one who didn't have any better ideas.
we're running the tests. she's not marfanoid.
a systemic reaction can be triggered by the protein in semen. in most cases the reaction is fairly minor. but in rare cases repeat exposure can trigger a hypersensitivity response.
the reaction should take longer than...
abby what's wrong?
no allergic reaction. on the other hand now her kidneys are failing.
we could do a full-body scan.
and by we you mean you. we also hate when a patient dies before we figure out what's wrong with them.
don't cheat. after a while they'll catch on.
take them with you wherever you go for 24 hours a day. so your wife's a little insecure. is that so bad? at least you know she still cares.
sure... as long as it makes you happy.
just hang in there and try not to talk unless you really have to. it can affect the images.
it's not the machine. it's an earthquake. hold on. we'll get you out.
she's hallucinating.
a vascular problem could explain both. inflammation in the blood-vessel walls leads to dissection in the aorta and could cause an aneurysm in the brain that could cause the visions.
an aneurysm explains the hallucinations. and it's the one thing we haven't excluded from the differential.
not ever.
it's a big logical jump from a body's immune response to the brain giving subconscious diagnostic clues.
sure. that's the same as the brain shouting you have pancreatic cancer.
or we could act on something based in science not science fiction. get an mra with contrast to see if she has an aneurysm unless you think cuddy's gonna go for the mind reading.
abby what are you feeling?
(to the nurses) we need four milligrams lorazepam.
inner-ictal e.e.g. showed no synchronous discharges.
no aneurysms or arterial or venous malformations in the brain.
temporoparietal junction was clean on mri mra and whole-body scan.
no no and no. can we get back to the medical science?
but i'm sure it wasn't a differential. house cognitive pattern recognition is 50 years from being a useful diagnostic tool.
i'm not telling a mother who's scared out of her mind that our best shot is a magic trick.
while you watch video clips a computer maps how your brain processes the images.
six hours. but that's really just the prep. once the computer maps how she processes the information we'll put her under twilight sedation use the same equipment to monitor her unconscious thoughts.
hopefully it'll spit out a very basic video of whatever's going on in her head.
hopefully it'll give us a clue as to where your brain thinks the problem is.
we're at a diagnostic dead end. we've got to try something.
yeah. now all we have to do is read her subconscious and hope that it's completely rational and went to med school.
well it's taken us just over an hour to prove that she has a very boring subconscious.
she's going to stanford to study physics. it's not a big revelation that she'd think about the sky.
stars moon sky white blood cells heart valves black holes or anus or a million other circular passageways into the body and her dad.
pineal gland is calcified.
what if it's obscuring a tumor? it's the only place we couldn't look inside.
mri revealed no remarkable features on her pineal gland. but there were slightly elevated levels of lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes.
there's definitely no allergy.
parasite? there's this middle eastern parasite <U+0097>
what?
hey.
i was looking for mckenna's patient file.
two hours ago?
if you already found it what are you looking through those for?
those should all be in h.r.
put them away.
i think i can live with that.
[looking at the other side of the file folder] he did a brain biopsy without ct mapping causing brain herniation and death.
[looking over taub's shoulder] on a patient named lisa cuddy? [they both flip through the papers.] damn it. they're all named lisa cuddy.
you really want to get into his head?
[reaching into his pocket] you can uh... skip the stabbing.
confiscated them from a drug seeker in that clinic. didn't get a chance to turn 'em in.
one? i believe he wears a larger size.
dude.
mine is. maybe we shouldn't have taken so many.
you be careful.
i can't feel my face.
way. hit me.
hit me in the face.
you know you've always wanted to. now's your chance.
okay. [taub hits him. he goes flying and lands on the floor. taub holds his wrist.]
[still on the floor laughing] i wasn't ready.
[grabs for it as taub backs away] hey give me that.
i am asking you to please stop reading.
i... i needed to beat all those elite spoiled kids around me to show no weaknesses to win at everything. why'd i just tell you that? i always talk too much when i'm stoned. why'd i just tell you that?
except i didn't think i deserved to be at a top med school in the first place. [to himself annoyed at having revealed another secret] again.
[reads the cover of a file he's holding] dr. taub comma christopher michael.
published in the new england journal at 26?
led a group of surgeons to fix cleft palates in bangladesh?
i don't get it. this has got to be the most spectacular file down here. why are you pretending to be ashamed?
so we both have a few regrets.
nah.
[shakes his head] mm-mm. you got the patient file?
thanks. see you tomorrow.
(laying file on the table) an eight-year-old with bleeding ears.
house what are you doing?
(reaching for the file) why don't you put that down before you kill one of us?
seizure right after a fight obviously suggests concussion.
(into the phone) anything abnormal on the mri?
(into the phone) okay we'll be back soon. (he puts the phone away)
(to the man) do i look like i'm here to play pretend with you?
our knight just vomited inside the mri. taub thinks it might be food poisoning...
which shouldn't be surprising <U+0097> outdoor latrines food prep going on next to livestock.
not well or we wouldn't be here.
and you might want to invest into a dental plan for the kingdom.
we're not sure of anything yet but...
(to thirteen) what do you make of this?
(picking a round red object out of the straw and holding it up in front of miles and shannon) true but i meant this.
why didn't he mention it when he checked into the hospital?
all it takes is one bad eyeball.
to what?
this should prevent any more symptoms until we can figure out what it is you're allergic to.
tachycardia <U+0097> we need to shock him back into rhythm.
i don't know.
it's definitely not an allergy or the epi would have helped him not made him worse.
but not skin infections.
methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus?
or epinephrine. that means the heart problem we ruled out we now have to rule back in.
he would have had symptoms way before the renaissance festival.
what's the diagnosis?
or we screwed up and missed something at the renaissance faire.
no but i think house will think we did.
fungal infection.
it fits his symptoms.
have you noticed how much pain he's been in lately?
extra pain means extra cranky it means off his game. he's not gonna accept this isn't environmental unless we give him no choice.
also means it's not environmental. we need to move on.
house...
the test results don't we redid<U+0097>
(to chase) you and thirteen check out his place. while you're wasting your time we'll ultrasound the liver. if it's cancer it's as good a place as any to start.
pull in closer.
see that?
i don't know. but it's definitely not cancer.
it's not poison we would have picked it up in his blood work.
it's latin for black lead.
there wasn't any lead present in his blood work or liver biopsy.
we ran a gas chromatography on his blood. found trace amounts of piperidine alkaloids.
it's hemlock we found it in his blood.
endocarditis. infection on his heart valve.
herpes might not register if she was exposed in the last six weeks.
so paralysis arrhythmia and intermittent abdominal pain.
we've ruled out sex.
increased libido can be a symptom of adrenocortical carcinoma which also explains her other symptoms.
mazel tov?
no sign of schistocytes or hemolysis. so you're actually going to sleep with another woman then go home to your wife?
it was during an x-ray. you think that cured her?
the treatment's not working. her left kidney failed last night. the other one's right behind it. it's not ankylosing spondylitis.
weil's syndrome also affects multiple organ systems and it wouldn't have been treated by the antibiotic the e.r. gave her.
pleural effusion.
there's at least 200 ccs of fluid in there.
if the pleural effusion's caused by something systemic it could explain his other two symptoms. and so whether you believe him or not all we have to figure out is what caused the pe.
a chemical assault like that could explain the pe.
ect doesn't cause neural damage.
(looking at the test results) everything looks normal.
beta waves are spiking.
i'm not sure.
he's having a heart attack.
ekg showed no abnormalities.
so we'll do an angio to see if it's blocks or bleeds.
nobody wants to follow that.
(looking at the container) male hormones don't make you lactate.
that was over three months ago. we just started milking him last night.
brilliant.
long shot.
the breathing problem was caused by fluid overload in the lungs.
we're trying to stabilize her heart. she's still tachy and hypotensive.
may need to tube her. grab some i.v. furosemide.
she's crashing.
tattoo.
don't worry. we're gonna get you outta here.
he's secure.
(to house) crane operator. made it through amazingly well. lucid and responsive. stable fracture right humerus. haven't gotten to his lower half yet.
he's still in the er house. we haven't had time to start a differential.
meningioma sick sinus syndrome.
she's not here. and the answer to your next question is no. i don't know
(talking to house on the phone from the diagnostics conference room) mri was clean but afterwards he started bleeding out of his eyes and nose.
would have seen it on the mri.
meningitis?
he's fallen into a coma. lp was clean but...
but that didn't cause his first symptom.
there's no way to prevent a fat embolism. even if you'd done this in an o.r. you couldn't have saved her.
you can't blame yourself for her death. this wasn't your fault.
you shouldn't be alone right now. you're bleeding.
