what can you tell me about her?
that's it!
blurry vision!
(turning to his team) you don't stop a daily ritual that cures boredom because you're bored. she stopped doing her crossword puzzle because she's having a hard time reading it. what causes fever boggy lungs and blurry vision?
(pleased) start her on amphotericin.
hey guys! great job.
we were wrong.
and we're going to keep being wrong until we're right.
yeah that was very helpful. (grumbles as he writes) need a team to tell me we're mortals. (turns back to his team) look i'm sorry. you're right. doesn't hurt to be reminded that we're dealing with the real stakes here. (looks at the board) liver failure's a bad thing but it's also a clue. (gently questioning) what does it tell us?
i'm not jumping. broad specs haven't worked so it's not bacterial. failing liver despite treatment suggests it's not fungal. and her high lactic acidosis points towards anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
large cell lymphoma's incredibly aggressive. she'll be dead in a week if we follow the textbooks.
i know it's contrary to protocol. but i think it's more like...
fever's gone. ast and alt are back within normal range. she should be out of here in a few days.
thanks.
i was sure...
it won't happen again.
[smiles in agreement] that's why i left. we had different ideas on how to practise.
to be honest i don't think dr. schaffer really gave me a chance.
[sighs uneasily] saved a patient's life.
[unsure] have you spoken to her?
then why are you asking me what happened?
[quietly] what'd she tell you?
that's what happened. nothing more i can add to that.
i'm not interested.
i thought it was social.
that's why i left.
i'll find a job.
they'll learn.
[snorts] heh! keep looking. might take a while.
what does house say about this?
[chuckles] this restaurant is twenty minutes out of your way. half an hour out of mine. you picked it to make sure house didn't drop in on us.
and you tell him that then run back to your office while i get to deal with him. i left for a reason. that reason hasn't changed.
yes he is.
i agree. i-i learned an awful lot from him.
about a month. dr. schaffer was great but just wasn't the right fit.
it was uh it was a tough situation. i probably could've handled it better.
there was an unusual lactic acid level in one of her labs. i had a similar case a few months ago.
[chuckles] well my stones are on the market.
i've rethought some things.
i'm prepared to come back on a number of conditions. i want the raise you promised plus five percent. i want my own office and a personal assistant.
[frowns confused] what's going on?
i can start monday.
laryngospasm. [everyone turns to look at him.] frosty fall air hits his vocal chords they spasm shut... choke him out.
[to cuddy.] you didn't tell him i was coming back?
i'm sorry she didn't have to do that publicly.
there's nothing we can do.
not really cuddy won't...
that's true.
i'm not quitting.
i'm not quitting.
i already am miserable. [leaves.]
how do we connect abdominal pain and numbness in the extremities with respiratory collapse?
doesn't cover all three. what else?
have to be in the brain stem and it still doesn't explain the lungs.
lungs stomach numbness?
we have to unify these symptoms.
can we stick to the medicine here?
multiple marantic emboli could...
you're right.
no but. you're right about all of it.
it seems i didn't get out of here soon enough. the world thinks i've been corrupted so no one will hire me. i hate being here. i'd love to quit... but i can't. [foreman leaves.]
thanks.
guy's faking. it's munchausen's. you notice the emt run sheet? [hands a file to house.] paramedic who brought him in is also named martin harris.
look. [points to the white board listing all the patients.] room 406 abdominal pain. room 403 left-sided numbness. 402 syncope. he's copying his neighbours' symptoms.
yeah coincidence is much more likely than you being a stubborn jerk.
munchausen's patients have medical histories they don't want us reading.
see? nothing's wrong with him.
giovannini's?
my explanation's simpler.
so we let him jerk them around for a few days until we're sure?
house! [house stops the patient just before he starts operating on the person. house notices something wrong with the patient's hand and pulls off the glove. the hand looks freaky can see all the veins through the skin.]
where are we going?
you're not punishing cuddy you're punishing every doctor in the building.
[gets up on the chair.] the mayo is fine. you can stay where you are. i'm a doctor.
broad spectrum antibiotics aren't working. it's got to be viral or exotic bacteria.
so back to repeating all the cultures.
wait guys. i haven't signed off on this. [everyone stops looks at foreman then looks at house who is ignoring them then they leave except for taub who walks up to foreman.]
your boyfriend has me at even odds.
i did. he said he's just responding to market forces.
if he's trying to screw with me because he's jealous cuddy didn't ask him to take this job...
he's messed up enough to...
then house has been wasting a lot of time.
you know what's worse than a sanctimonious speech? a sanctimonious speech that's dead wrong.
or he happened to visit california.
or he kissed his maid from el salvador. or he sat next to someone from belize on a flight to weehawken or he ate lettuce from honduras...
lps won't just give him a fever. he could hit 110 fry his brain.
you nailed brennan for seeing what he wanted to see. you're no different.
if we can keep your fever up we can get you back on dry land. you feeling okay?
that's not the way fevers usually work.
no kidding.
it was necessary to keep your blood flowing.
you're happy?
oh hey. [feels for a pulse.] hey you with me? [runs to the door.] i need help in here! [two nurses taub and kutner come running in.] v-fib. we've got to shock him.
just a few seconds. [they pull him out of the tub and onto the bed and start trying to dry him.]
ten more seconds.
kutner you'll arc it...
for one of them. [looks at kutner who is unconscious on the floor.]
anybody think we should discuss which infection is causing the cold agglutinins before they stop his heart again?
we know the infection is in his heart. we do a biopsy we see polys we got bacterial. lymphs we got viral.
yeah yeah... we biopsy his toe instead!
they have a great diagnostics department.
that was... very nice of you.
what? [the exit the elevator.]
are you saying? what does you having sex with...
i don't want the job. [house stops walking.]
apparently not.
no.
it can wait.
it can wait 15 minutes. [to house.] you know where cuddy is?
then i take the job at mount zion.
house said that...
damn. [house continues celebrating.]
that was nice of you.
why didn't you fire anyone?
right why didn't you let brennan quit?
right... by not letting anyone go you made six people happy and one person happy and rich. chase won every one of those bets so either you're just really nice or what's your cut?
i'll keep my mouth shut
i think i do.
house. let them do their job.
except no abdominal pain the patient hasn't lost his appetite and the last i checked the gastrointestinal tract isn't connected to the heart.
not without tight skin on the hands muscle weakness and a thirty-year-old patient.
didn't think you had the guts to stage a coup.
no you're not.
you're a test result away from becoming house's front-runner. he doesn't care about what you said or what you did five minutes ago. he just wants the next good idea. (beat) show me twenty percent magnification of the forebrain.
talk like that around house doesn't matter how many good ideas you come up with.
(onscreen) not without tight skin on the hands muscle weakness and a thirty-year-old patient.
or you were right. kid got better when we put him on steroids. this is jra. and it's under control now.
it's how i got hired. [they leave. house rides out the other exit on his scooter.]
send the patient home you can give him a lift.
you're reporting to me because you're scared to report to house because you found nothing because this isn't a case. [laughs.] and you thought i'd save your ass.
what about his lungs? decreased oxygen saturation leads to heart failure.
er wasn't looking too busy trying to keep him alive. get an mri. [leaves.]
do your research people. an intestinal infarct could be linked to the cardiac arrest.
uh there's a guy bleeding.
she's not wearing any underwear - big deal. when she stops wearing clothes then we can drop the medical stuff.
anyone bother looking at his panel? his immunoglobulin levels are low.
low immunoglobulin plus failing heart plus fluid in the lungs plus internal bleeding equals amyloidosis.
we've still got 32 minutes left.
you're checking up on them. that means cole's finished with the biopsy and it was negative.
no. don't.
that's why i'm here.
i was wrong.
where's finn?
because your body only makes those antibodies when you actually have that type of blood.
would you stop that?
[reading quidd's file] the guy's a walking pharmacy. could be anything.
no he's sick 'cause he's a drug addict.
so you think it's all too perfect? some other disease is trying to throw us off its trail?
no!
he's weak in withdrawal just spewed blood. they're gonna rip off a piece of his lung ram instruments down his throat and roto-rooter his intestines. [house's lower-lip-pouts] be nice if we didn't kill him trying to figure out what's killing him.
it's one thing to hire based on a game.
it's insane to treat based on a game.
the one where we stuff another patient in a body bag?
no.
it's a moving target. house keeps moving it so i can't find it.
[jerks his head towards quidd's room] taub is in there prepping the patient for a biopsy. stay close to taub i stay close to house.
i'm trying to stop the game.
you wander over here to annoy me?
damn! now when i walk away it's gonna look like i have a reason other than just annoyance.
you try the other arm?
[to taub and amber] he let you check his chest. he let you do anything except check that arm.
he wallpapered himself with nicotine patches.
i followed taub.
it was a harmless test. the patient's welfare still counts for something doesn't it?
[deadpan] sure. anything i can do to help your game.
so how's your game going?
'course you do. this is still a game. you're still gonna reward whoever gets the right idea punish whoever's wrong. hire who you want get this over with.
he's a druggie. i was never sure there was a disease in the first place.
said he would. no sign of upper motor neuron involvement.
tell him you're done firing people.
why would you
we're not cops. legally we don't care one way or another.
spastic chorea in his right hand.
how much do you weight? about 180 190?
[interrupts] you took what she did it could take longer to hit you. might affect you differently.
have any of it left?
can't make them blind days later.
so you think this is the part of the year they screwed up?
we're wasting time going to the home. kearns-sayer syndrome fits the symptoms. [takes a name from the stocking and tucks it into his jacket's inner pocket without even looking.
we're confident.
choroidal flush looks good.
dozens of reasons to lie only one reason to tell the truth.
not even close. dye's reached the retinal capillary bed. no leakage.
vascular problem we could fix.
except she can't see out of them.
no sign of plaques. it's not ms.
maybe she's not lying.
her brain is. what if it's a conversion disorder?
nope.
we allow people fifty people will spend sixty.
i know he didn't get house.
[arms crossed obviously displeased] not a chance!
he's not supposed to put his name in there five times!
swollen lymph nodes were cutting off maggie's airway. we shrunk them with alcohol she's breathing on her own now.
house we already have a full history. you don't need to waste time <U+0097>
no fever no elevated white count.
no lung involvement.
doesn't seem like it. admirable. you tell cameron everything?
you think she keeps secrets?
you buy house a present?
to screw with me.
no no wait. stop stop. what's that smell?
her bone is smoking.
why do you think there are no hotspots?
just means the density was consistent doesn't mean it was cold. it's possible all she has are hotspots. it's consistent because her entire skeleton is turning to stone.
[frowns] and you think that'll make your lives better or worse?
house if you have something to say say it. if you don't give us a chance to get home before santa.
most kidney stones are calcium and benign. why would you suspect a struvite stone?
dr. milton are you able to run a chem 7?
that'll tell us if her kidney function's declining. if it is he's right. struvite stone's most likely explanation. if not she's right. [foreman looks at house who just stares at him.] sorry i know how you like to avoid avoiding confrontation.
have you noticed any improvement since starting the cefuroxime?
while you're waiting we should run another test with the geology equipment...
it's deviating to the left.
cate is anyone there with you?
you need to call someone.
she could pass out. she needs...
we should discuss this then call her back.
since when do you let patients participate in differentials?
excuse us a second. [mutes the microphone.] cancer explains the symptoms. a tumour in her lung or kidney that threw a clot to the other organ.
cancer's a hard diagnosis for patients even when they're not in the south pole. we should figure this out maybe bring wilson in.
house!
possibly.
he's letting her take part in the differentials.
he's annoyed by her doesn't respect her as a doctor constantly insults her.
oh god. he's been wooing me for years.
soya sauce is a no-go.
we should send her outside.
autoimmune diseases are basically inflammation running wild. extreme cold has been used as treatment like putting ice on a sprained ankle. she starts to feel better outside we know it's autoimmune.
she'd only need to be outside five minutes.
this is a good idea. it's perfect for you. experimental risky. wilson's right. you care about
where are you going?
there are no ideas. the test for autoimmune is ana. unless penguins poop immuno-analysers she's not
c3.
le prep. but she doesn't have any controlled pore glass beads.
what? what happened?
is he going to live?
i got to go talk to cameron.
why would she lie?
there is another test.
if you have an autoimmune disease exposure to the cold should decrease your kidney pain.
at least five minutes.
are you all right? [she collapses.]
took the station mechanic 20 minutes to respond. she'd already slipped into a coma. started her on prednisone but no improvement.
you're letting them off the hook?
we could talk the mechanic through the test.
if it has a strong concentrated taste it means the problem's in her kidneys. watery taste means it's her brain.
take a straight catheter and insert it...
either increased intracranial pressure or something's wrong with her hypothalamus.
place the drill bit against the upper left part of her forehead. about an inch above the temple. [sean turns on the drill and slowly moves it down onto her head it goes through the skin and stops going down further.]
bone's harder than wood lean into it. the skull's only a quarter-inch thick. once you're midway through drill in shorter bursts. [sean does as he's told.]
we ruled out cancer.
not without a fever.
you'll need to close the break to stop the marrow from leaking.
grab the tip of her toe with your right hand. hold the break with the other. [sean does as he's told.] on the count of three pull hard. one... two... three. [sean pulls we hear a loud crack and cate screams.]
no.
that much carbolic acid someone would've had to poison her.
yeah she should be self-hating.
[rhetorically] what's their divorce rate?
romance is just emotional foreplay y'know. candlelight meals flowers - it's as much a ritual as anything these people do. why not go with someone who's pre-vetted shares the same values? cut to the quick.
you commit to something deeper you let the little surprises slide.
and you have no more surprises for your wife.
you ever heard of a hasidic jew into hard rock? she's listed as a producer on all of these.
wegener's would explain her elevated sed rate.
heart's strong enough to prove you wrong about the change in mental status.
leg pain can be from nerve entrapment. we're thinking blood clot.
an mri alone will detect...
no.
i thought you went...
caudal structures look okay. she hasn't changed? sex drugs rock and roll the six hundred rules of god are all in there somewhere.
you don't like it. you don't wanna be... oversimplified. [into microphone] roz move your right leg.
so you keep it a mystery. no categories if no one knows anything.
no. i'm sure you have many reasons to keep yourself a mystery besides the fact that you're bisexual.
uh denial would have worked before the long vacant stare. [into microphone] roz move your left leg just an inch.
people who have a problem with boxes are people who don't fit in them.
[smiling] no need for name calling.
i don't give a damn.
what's wrong with it?
it isn't cool.
sorry.
bp and heart rate are dropping. she's crashing!
she's stabilizing.
we started her on fludrocortisone and ephedrine.
pheochromocytoma.
complication on a complication?
we accept that he's happy.
[suggesting] cortisol. could be addison's.
she just met the guy.
we're taking you back to your room for your candlelight dinner. [to the others] ready? one two three.
tested her white cell count again. normal.
[vo] titers were normal.
and how long has the patient been... suffering?
the chances of him having an undiagnosed pathology for that long...
you want it to be a symptom because then we're supposed to be jerks which means you don't even have to try to be nice.
[looking at a photo.] this guy worked for habitat for humanity in costa rica.
it is possible he's too perfect.
that's not what people do.
house?
what sort of argument is that?
[opens up a cupboard.] that might be relevant. [picks up a bottle.] hydrofluoric acid. lowers his calcium causes the fainting and taste issue.
wouldn't that be nice?
what the hell was that?
how is that supposed to help him?
the point of a review is to give feedback to help...
he doesn't think it's syphilis but he's going to go run those tests anyway.
because he's a wimp because he's afraid of you.
reviews make a difference. people have to listen so they have to learn.
you don't want to do the paperwork.
[sighs.] i'll do it.
sit down.
nothing on the echo.
you got a minute first?
i think you've shown remarkable strength in a difficult situation. [opens a file.]
a good one.
you doubted your patient.
it's not neurosyphilis it's a pfo.
[laughs.] kutner could you excuse us? i need to do taub's review.
i think it would be better if this was done privately.
what is it with you guys? i've given you advice before.
what's the difference? advice is advice.
house authorized me...
i volunteered because i knew he wouldn't...
thanks.
you have syphilis. [house looks surprised.]
it's treatable.
we know. it's not just a coincidence.
the leg was a coincidence.
humans are simple.
your management style is counterproductive. you gave me authority over the team just so they could undercut...
i didn't feel like waiting until your genitals cleared up. you need to formalise my authority over the team.
you don't think i'm qualified?
you want to punish cuddy for hiring me without...
you want to crush the team by crushing me?
mocking me saves lives?
or you made up that bs because you like humiliating me.
[suspicious.] whatever i decide? [house nods.] you're setting me up.
[shrugs.] pfo.
maybe taub is right maybe this is good.
well he respected our opinions he mocked himself he was civil he shared.
he never cares.
don't know.
he doesn't have a current case.
he doesn't have a current case.
[enters] what's going on?
that readout says his vision's fine.
yes it does.
you kidnapped him?
which gets a lot wider when there's no proof he ever had a vision problem.
what about the way he's holding that stethoscope? his thumb and forefinger are meeting at an odd angle.
it's diagnostic. everything's under control.
not without a fever.
he quit twenty years ago and his calcium levels are normal.
house is right. [house stops writing mid-signature]
if he goes into full-on thyroid storm he'll die. we gotta nuke his thyroid.
hang up the phone.
we're not nuking the guy's thyroid without proof that it's graves. do the iodine uptake test.
when house finds out we'll have the test results. and we'll either do his procedure or we won't.
it's a good thing we didn't. kidney failure means it wasn't graves.
which he could have handled easily if his kidneys were healthy. all we did was reveal a new symptom. usually you're all for that.
you were wrong.
i did it because it was the right thing to do.
there's nothing in our office that would be less than
we need to identify the infection and get him on more targeted med fast.
unless it's a fungus. we could see that under a microscope.
this isn't a soap opera house. people don't just wake up from comas the second you give them drugs.
it was negative for fungus and parasites. but that doesn't mean<U+0096>
he has no history of allergies or asthma. most importantly none of his symptoms remotely resemble an allergic reaction.
one in a million times. septic infection always explains his symptoms.
an infection is rarely resistant <U+0096>
my god. why didn't you say he'd been exposed to plant life.
he has an infection. if we give him steroids we'll kill him.
not as fast.
why? the steroids worked. house was right.
he was still right. it was an allergy.
only one that we remember.
everything has some external physical manifestations and you're obsessive enough to notice any of them. which means there's nothing we can rule out.
yeah i'll uh start him on antibiotics in case it's transverse myelitis. you guys go sniff a city bus.
it's two in the morning. you should be home resting what's left of your bruised brain.
recovery slow enough for you now?
we've scanned his head five times. [looks at house and notices blood dripping from his ear.] you're bleeding.
it's coming from your ear. you think that's a good thing?
house is being looked after. our other patient has jaundice low albumin and no diagnosis.
thank you. but wilson's wouldn't explain <U+0096> [phone rings and he answers it.] foreman.
well the tests confirmed the abdominal pain was caused by liver failure.
can't be his alk-phos was normal.
why doesn't it make sense? the bus driver's asian his potassium is slightly low <U+0096>
get him to the or to suck it out.
why are we doing this?
how? on an echo? can't see wall motion when there's no motion.
ekg nope. heart's in the off position. thallium uptake scan? useless on a cold heart.
coronary angio was negative.
we have to warm her back up. get her heart beating so we can do a ct to confirm.
that's the safer course?
when did we start assuming we're wrong?
if this were any other patient...
[vo] liver failure means whatever this thing is it's spreading despite the fact that she's frozen.
we can stick a needle in her liver. if we see fibrosis she's right.
[understands] hep b.
good idea. and i'll go nap because i was concussed last night and had a heart attack this morning. i'll tell wilson you go sleep.
a rash. how'd you know what was on the small of her back?
the flu wouldn't be killing her organs one by one.
maybe it's not a rash at all. it could be an abscess.
means it's vesicular. rocky mountain spotted fever.
it's treatable. doxycycline.
the fastest way to test is to treat. if we're wrong still should give us time to try something else.
[retorts] we're never one hundred percent certain.
[arguing] he's wrong. and you know he's wrong. you can't change your mind just because a family member starts crying. they're always scared.
house is gonna kill the patient.
you weren't taking the safe approach.
we've gotta know if the antibiotics are working.
house suffered a complex partial seizure. the violent shaking widened his skull fracture causing a brain bleed.
[vo] we won't know if there's any cognitive impairment until he's out of the coma.
[vo] he was right about the amantadine. amber's body couldn't filter it out. that's what caused her heart to beat too fast for too long.
[vo] it caused irreparable structural damage. didn't matter if they shocked her or froze her.
[vo] her heart was dead once it stopped in that ambulance.
[quietly] all of her organs are damaged. she can't qualify.
there's nothing we can do. nothing we could have done.
we do now.
