it's just... 8 miles.
why does a dog lick its <U+0096> [he takes the water from her hand and starts to drink it. yes he's just drinking her water.] workplace acceptable euphemism for testicles?
what have you got for me boss?
[he puts down the water and picks up a file.] if i'd come back sooner i'd only be able to run 6 miles. i never would have made it in. what have you got for me?
it's been 2 months. it's not wearing off. what have you got for me? [he picks up one of the files and starts looking through it himself.]
why are we having this discussion? want to hear me thank you again? thank you dr cuddy. not just for removing the bullet but thank you for putting me in a ketamine-induced coma and changing my life. happy? i am.
infection throwing clots you're an idiot. [cuddy throws a smile at wilson.] except you're not an idiot [house looks at wilson and then cuddy.] and she's holding a file for a 26-yr-old female what have you really got for me?
oh well played sir! [he grabs the file off cuddy but continues to read the one in his hands.] what about stephen hawking trying to do the 500 butterfly?
hmm... i'll take them both.
of course he had brain cancer; even oncologists don't screw up for 8 years.
treatment can be interesting.
i've changed.
no i haven't.
guy tried to kill himself.
he's been in that chair for 8 years his muscles have atrophied. maybe i can help him with the pain. isn't that enough of a reason to want to help?
i've changed.
then why am i taking this case? [he suddenly sprints ahead of wilson and runs off.]
let's start with the cute paraplegic.
quad with no broken neck struck me as odd.
taken a whole month to ease back 8 weeks is the maximum rehab time for a gunshot wound to the stomach and neck. so go. [he takes a drink from the fridge and starts drinking.]
what? you think he might have shot this patient too? would explain her symptoms
see? it's not so difficult.
it's not ms. she had no symptoms before she climbed on to her head. unless she's been upside-down for the last 10 years ms ain't it.
when did this turn into 'what did you do over your summer vacation'?
no i like the carpet. what did you do over the summer?
re-do the tests. [he walks away from her.] let's see if the source of the problem is in the limbs or the spine. do an emg. [the ducklings prepare to walk out.] whoa whoa whoa! got a whole other quad to cover; this guy's still got fluid in his lungs.
give him an o2 mask. his leg muscles have atrophied tendons have shortened from disuse causing intense pain. tendon surgery will make him more comfortable.
scoot.
not a problem.
you haven't spoken to him in over 6 years.
fine. i'm wrong. you obviously have a better understanding of this man who drools in front of your tv set 24 hours a day.
hope it was a suicide attempt. if he was trying to kill himself then he knows how miserable his life is means there's still something there to kill; means your dad's still there.
i loaned her some money. what went wrong?
nothing went wrong then something went right.
you're not going to tell me what went right?
for you. saw you coming up thought you were a 14-yr-old boy i set her straight.
ohhh you got me. you know i need to know i'm so going to fold. except you're forgetting there's one thing i can do now. [he casts a curious glance at something behind her she turns to look and he quickly runs off she laughs and follows.]
what happened?
pleasure's all mine what happened?
[to cameron as she walks in.] she flinched! did you hear?
how big is a flinch? bigger than a twitch? smaller than a spasm? [chase inserts the pin again so house can see the flinch.] you smoke?
you do yoga and you smoke?
not at all the world sees your legs no one's checking out your lungs. [he goes and checks out caren's handbag.]
it wouldn't just needed a lighter. [he takes one out goes to the bottom of caren's bed holds a foot in his hand and turns on the flames right under it. she screams and jerks her leg away and he stops.]
[gives the puppy dog eyes.] the case was looking so promising.
you moved therefore you can move. get this lunatic out of here before she bores again.
she thanked me.
wasn't even sure what i was supposed to feel.
told you to get rid of her.
right. either that or she's holding her breath like a 4-yr-old.
relax. i'm not going to burn you again. i'm going to stab you! [he brings out the needle suddenly trying to scare her. caren continues gasping for breath.] look either you're faking or you've got a pleural effusion - that's a build-up of fluid around the lungs which is very serious - and i would have no choice but to stab you in the back with this needle and suck all the fluid out of you. [caren looks terrified but continues gasping for breath.] so--
that would defeat the point of me being nasty. [he stands next to her with the needle.] ready? [he raises his arm and pretends to strike until he notices a distended jugular vein on her neck.] down.
down!
down! down down down! come on! [he pushes her to lie flat on her back again before he spears the needle straight into her chest to the surprise of the ducklings and starts drawing out blood. caren's breathing becomes easier.]
can't fake that.
but not the paralysis. let's assume that she wasn't faking it.
ehh... doesn't mean she was faking could have been a delusion. now either she was faking and coincidentally got a real cardiac problem at the exact same time or it's a delusion and the fake paralysis is a real neurological symptom.
so open her up and find it. [he bounces the ball he normally plays with on chase's head - to chase's annoyance.]
that should work. [he tosses the ball back to chase before walking out the door.]
his heart rate's a little high.
probably just means he's still in discomfort from the surgery. i'm going to up his morphine a little.
that's the job.
his heart rate's come down the morphine worked i was right.
would you like to get a drink?
no i'm serious. i drink you drink. we could do it at the same time same table. do you eat? we could do that too. i mean if the answer's no that's cool but... [he waits for her response as they stop in front of the elevators.]
oh don't take it personally. its just coz you're full of crap. you have no interest in going out with me. maybe you did when i couldn't walk and i was a sick puppy that you could nurture back to health. now that i'm healthy there's nothing in it for you.
who won the pool?
what's the worst that can happen? i paralyze her. she won't even notice.
[sits down in the chair opposite cuddy.] fine i'll lower it. if you'll let me do the surgery.
you want something i want something. we compromise. it's the grown-up way to resolve our differences.
ran a few more tests came back negative surgery's on. [the next grape he throws does land on the cleaner's head. house quickly and guiltily shuffles back out of view from below leaving wilson standing there alone. wilson does an apologetic hand gesture and turns back to face house.]
does that make me evil?
the girl's life is at stake what we're talking about with the guy--
too bad for them.
sixth level is heroin; seventh level is you going away.
i'm not an idiot. [to nurse.] move.
close her up you wanna know why?
true it's not the most interesting reason. [he shows the surgeon caren's big toe which is has a very ugly cracking yellow nail and the area around the nail looks bruised and bleeding.] that is not a sexy big toe. you'd never put that in your mouth.
told you it was interesting; it gets even better.
it's just post-op discomfort. he's ready to go home.
eventually.
everything else will be the same.
why don't you put him in some sort of... facility? some place without a pool.
right. kids need a dad; someone to play catch with. talk about girls.
get a dog.
some guy shot you and you hallucinated?
so he's just an anchor weighing you and your family down sapping your energy wasting your life - that's the meaning you take from this?
you enjoy this?
so you don't want to take care of him. taking care of him doesn't fulfill you make you happy. but not taking care of him would make you miserable.
here let me...
do that again make that sound.
that... was talking.
you guys are lousy doctors. you're in such a rush to make the patient feel better you forgot to check what was wrong.
not her the other guy.
until last night he spoke.
guhhhhhhh.
sounds good. call me when you're done.
i am not bored. [he attempts to do a trick where he pushes the skateboard down from the stone bench to the ground while attempting to stay on it. he falls off.] damn it.
of course not because then she would never have consented to a bunch of dangerous tests. i don't remember you being this bitchy.
can't let her down like that pumped her up with too much false hope. [he attempts the trick again and this time he sticks on the skateboard.] oh! i stuck that primo! how rad am i? [wilson's only reaction is to look resigned.]
any patterns?
i like it.
not the kidney part the pain part. abdominal pain plus all that stuff could equal a pancreatic cyst.
it's the first symptom on the board. grunt.
no traditional diagnostic marker is compression of the diaphragm vibration of the larynx leading to the audible sound 'i have a pain in my abdomen'.
illnesses have incubation periods. do an upper endoscopic ultrasound.
you're talking about him like he's an invalid.
does he drool? can he hold his neck straight? does he choke on his food? his neck's fine his throat's not going to collapse. cameron get consent from the wife.
get a look at the pancreas before the world ended?
this man nearly died. how can you discharge him?
except that our patient's throat was sedated. which means the brain should have sent a signal not to do anything. this could be cancer or some bizarre neuro-degeneration even a new type of vasculitis--
i find it interesting.
[turns to foreman.] half hour to remove the probe? [foreman nods.]
it's not a spasm. his throat didn't collapse it locked down. brain is supposed to tell every muscle in the body to relax and contract at the same time this muscle was only contracting which means a signal from the brain was not getting through.
all it takes is one wire down.
a few micro-tumors on the meninges suddenly you're choking to death.
no he won't.
the brain is enclosed in a sac called the meninges--
no no no no.
if we found cancer it wouldn't be the original cancer. it'd be new.
might not be the worst thing. if this isn't just ancient history then maybe it's something we can correct. might even get some brain function back.
but understanding what you're saying would be nice. maybe you can figure out ways to communicate.
i'm lucky? he's the one who didn't die.
told me he'd bleed into his brain not out of his ear.
we're missing something.
[gets off the stool and starts looking at the scans up close.] give me a tour of the brain foreman. walk me through the scans. 1998 what happened?
nothing. next a speck on the superior temporal region.
star thingy next to the rathke cleft.
re-do every blood test he's ever had. re-scan his head.
that's ok foreman's better at that stuff than you are. we need 5mm cuts through the occipital and hypothalamic regions.
i can help him.
seems like a good one.
does nobody in this hospital have anything better to talk about than my motives? my motives have nothing to do with the case.
for the first time in years i've got no opiates in my body now you question my judgment.
i didn't want to bore you with the details.
my leg hurt.
enough that i'm telling you.
ached for a while. first time i felt anything there since the surgery.
it was muscular it was some cramping. [wilson smiles.] what are you smiling about?
just give me a prescription.
i know what the pangs of middle age feel like.
the surgery didn't work.
you think this is a scam?
[whispered.] come on. [he gestures for her to open her window so he can talk to her.]
circumventricular system sends his cytokines releasing the early stages of the immune response but cdos releases prostaglandins that reset the hypothalamic set point upward unless it's countered by antipyretic therapy. [he's panting as he says this obviously having run to cuddy's house.] so yeah his brain's on fire. the suicide attempt was not a suicide attempt; he drove that wheelchair into the pool because he couldn't regulate his body temperature. he had hypothalamic dysregulation.
fountain. i can cure him.
no but if the scar tissue on his hypothalamus is resting against the pituitary the adrenals would shut down. addison's disease.
his brain is functional.
i can make him walk! i can make him talk!
inject him with cortisol. the guy will have sex with his wife again he'll hug his kid again. hopefully that's the combination he was using it'd be a shame if i'd cured a pedophile. [cuddy smiles despite herself.] you're smiling that's a bad sign.
i told you i haven't had anything in 3 months.
[sighs.] your decision doesn't make any sense. there is no risk to a cortisol injection. if i'm wrong big deal. he goes home a vegetable like he already is but if i'm right--
she was right to say no. i had no objective reason to think that i was right. just needed the puzzle.
showered at home.
is this an intervention? it's a little late since i'm not using drugs anymore. i am however still hooked on phonics.
thought of you in the shower.
i was hanging down my right pant leg yesterday. makes all the difference in the world. [gets into the elevator.]
do i need a restraining order?
he ever get his feelings hurt? i'll need to know that too.
why in case he's telling the truth? you're a believer aren't you?
no. but i'm guessing we're the only ones who like shoving things through our back doors.
perfect. especially if there were neurological problems.
well why is that a hallucination?
he's having nightmares. nightmares aren't a symptom of anything other than wanting to sleep with mommy. which just leaves us with one symptom: the bloody tuchas which can easily be explained by a gi problem or a bleeding disorder. check his coags with pt ptt and bleeding time. and prep him for endoscopies from above and below.
great! you do any of that medical stuff we talked about?
so it's a simple bleeding disorder.
so it's a simple bleeding disorder and you screwed up the test.
so it's a ufo unidentified flowing orifice. either you screwed up the test or i screwed up my analysis of this case. if you screwed up i don't have to cry myself to sleep. it's a simple bleeding disorder. foreman redo the test.
you sure?
so you're saying chase did screw up.
oh snap! foreman's playing the dozens; you're at a cultural disadvantage here. take a few minutes to think up a witty retort.
yeah testing nice idea. way better than trying to guess which doctor's incompetent. much better than the paperwork too.
oh no! well you take alpha centauri foreman can look on tatooine and cameron can set up an intergalactic checkpoint. let's pray he hasn't gone into hyperdrive! we'll never catch him.
results came back. the lab cannot identify the metal. they said it might not even be terrestrial.
no you idiot! it's titanium. like from a surgical pin like the kind the kid had inserted into his broken arm four years ago nice medical history.
so what a little piece broke off during removal.
tell that to the guys on the kursk.
yeah. an alien chip makes more sense. the real mystery is you didn't actually screw up. [he stumbles.]
fine. i tripped. kid carved a hole in the back of his neck apparently didn't bleed to death. now that's weird.
sure did. so first there was no bleeding disorder then there was now there's not again.
lucky for us the fourth test will be the charm.
tradeoff being that leaving his blood pressure that high risks stroke mi and blindness.
solve the case. kidneys could <U+0096>
[fingers crossed.] tell me he's a mutant human hybrid.
she was being metaphorical. trying to sound like me. i have no idea what you meant but i could smell what the rock was cooking.
hypertensive crisis can activate clotting factors. even someone low on von willenbrand's could theoretically clot.
i know i get worked up when i cut microchip tracking implants out of my neck.
yeah we get it. okay what's the differential for a seven-year-old boy suffering multiple hypertensive crises?
why don't i have hi-def in my office? i'm a department head!
tissue characterization is impossible when the pixels are the size of legos.
see this is what i'm talking about. foreman you've got to steal this thing for me.
we're gonna need a bigger boat.
there.
right there. left side no movement. [cameron freezes the shot.] well don't freeze it! something's not moving how do you see something not move if nothing's moving? [she restarts it.] i need the laser pointer.
well why not? who's going to take us seriously if we don't have a laser pointer? right here! [he jumps to point at the spot on the screen; as he lands he grimaces and clutches at his leg.] a few thousand myocytes not beating with the rest.
that's not an arrhythmia that's a no-rhythmia. myocytes contract these aren't moving at all. go get me those myocytes; i want to talk to them in my office.
heart nearly exploded. still beating though. most of it anyway. why do they bother putting age restrictions on these things when all you have to do is click yes i am 18? even a 17-year-old can figure that out.
first tell me what's going on with the boobs.
they're firmer.
i think it's hormones.
looks to me like those puppies are going into the dairy business.
guess i should be saying mazel tov.' who gets to pass out the cigars?
boy or girl? you got a name picked out?
my leg doesn't hurt.
no i'm not! oh you got me. if i thought my leg was deteriorating don't you think i'd want to take steps to prevent that?
gotta go. [as he leaves he fake stumbles. cuddy helps him up; he gives her a look with a ha.]
that is impossible. run it again.
anybody watch any x-files that inspired an explanation?
that much sun he'd be dying with a healthy bronze glow.
so first daddy was a rapist now he's a chemist.
not unless the kid's been eating barrels of celery or living in indonesia or both. [while this is going on house has limped from the whiteboard to lean over the table.]
is that question helping?
you're sitting.
my head's hurting. please someone give me a plausible terrestrial explanation for this kid's alien dna.
can you phrase that in the form of a metaphor?
okay let's do that.
what do you want?
when did you become an enabler?
i'd rather not become dependant on pain pills to get through my day. [he throws them back.]
i'm as happy as a pig in poop.
what part of poop didn't you understand?
it's my leg. we've known each other a long time.
our tag must not have penetrated the blood-brain barrier. don't use an iv this time; get it right into the brain.
what if it is there but didn't show up on the scan? what if the tag just doesn't work in his brain? brain cells are structurally different express a different protein.
i am going to think.
send the kid home.
make sure his blood pressure's stabilized and send him home.
we cured his bleeding disorder removed all the damaged cells we could find.
it's more probable that his remaining symptoms are just a nightmare.
may be epilepsy may be psychological may be nothing. if the kid gets sick again it'll give us another clue we can start searching again. if he doesn't it doesn't matter. send him home.
you've got to know when to stop.
except on my last case.
when did you develop such strong opinions about my patients? last week you were convinced that my patient wasn't sick now you're convinced this one is.
well i guess we could amputate his left leg. that's where we found most of it. maybe we could just remove his affected eye completely.
i'm not going to start lopping off body parts but it's interesting that you'd give me the green light.
you've been overly supportive this entire week. either you're hormonal or you're guilt-ridden. and it's too early in the pregnancy for this to be hormonal.
then what did you do wrong?
[to cuddy's belly.] oh your mommy's in such trouble. she's such a liar! that's why you don't have a daddy. that's why she had to <U+0096> [and epiphany.]
how does one person end up with two different sets of dna?
our assumptions are faulty.
i didn't say the lab work was faulty i said our assumptions were faulty. we assumed he's a person.
well you're being silly. what if he's not a person what if he's two persons?
no metaphor. chase you said the mom used in vitro fertilization right?
the kid was right all along he was implanted with something. back when he was really young i mean really young i mean twelve cells young. in vitro increases the likelihood of twinning.
not walking around. but in vitro fertilization costs about 25 grand a pop. [cgi of well cells merging.] so doctors implant about two to six embryos to make sure you get your money's worth. problem is there's not always enough bedrooms for all of the kiddies. two brothers get stuck sharing there's no bunk beds so they cuddle up to keep warm. they never untangle. he's two people in one. it's called chimerism.
unfortunately his brother's like a bad doubles partner. the guy just takes up space gets in the way. clancy's body thinks that he's going to put away the easy winners but his brother just keeps swatting the balls into the net. we've got to get him off the court.
sure abandon the metaphor. fine. clancy thinks differently than his brother because he thinks. if we induce an alien abduction <U+0096>
the foreign dna has got to be in a portion of your son's brain that makes him believe that he's being abducted. we stimulate those neurons with an electric probe; we can trick your son's brain into hallucinating. and your son's neurons will light up and his brother's cells will remain dark. those are the ones we cut out.
i'm talking about really cool brain surgery. one of your sons will die but the taller one won't be so annoying any more.
start us out at ten. [house is doing the brain surgery. wait what? clancy's arm twitches.]
that was all me kid. sorry.
any dark spots?
well turn up the juice.
riding the short bus is better than not breathing. take us to 100.
crank it up higher!
[in front of clancy's face.] they're going to get you! they're coming through the walls. they're going to take you torture you! you'll never see your parents again. [and all the cgi guys on house weep for joy because all they really want to do is work in sci-fi and here it is an alien abduction scene complete with bizarre probes.]
close him up.
you believe what cuddy tried to pull?
she lied to me. she cured my patient with my diagnosis then lied to me about it.
you're right. it does sound like you though.
nothing that your body language isn't telling me right now. so what was the plan? that i'd feel so humble by missing a case that i'd reevaluate my entire life question nature truth and goodness and become cameron?
god doesn't limp. [house leaves and wilson looks very very tired.]
71 year old cancer research specialist. minor tremors localized melanoma removed 2 years ago cataracts. and he can't breathe. also disregard the facial lacerations. they're creepy but unfortunately irrelevant. [he winks.] don't you wanna know why?
no why the lacerations are creepy. he was about to dissect one of his lab rats when he collapsed. the little vermin seized the day so to speak and went medieval on his ass. [the ducklings stare at him with frowns.] what my fly open?
there was no pain he was unconscious. i'm guessing because he wasn't able to breathe.
obviously. i'm obviously not. what is it with you people? i don't use the cane you're shocked. i use the cane
about the wrong person. i can breathe. ezra powell on the other hand is gonna die.
*that* textbook the textbook.
i admire lots of doctors. 'course most of them look a lot better in knee socks than ezra powell but seeing as they can all breathe.
you're being too nice. [he looks up at them.] outside the hospital he can't breathe inside the hospital he can. means we help at least enough to screw with our test results. the source of the problem's either in his heart or his lungs. so all we gotta do is stop helping put a little pressure on him and see which gives out first.
that's why we're gonna do it in a hospital. put him on an incline treadmill and do a stress ekg. [he grabs a donut and limps into his office with the cane.]
his heart rate barely got above 90.
it's 'cause he's not trying hard enough. if he was his heart rate would go up.
they don't call it a stress test for nothing. do it again.
it's kinda hard to check your throat when you're flapping your gums around.
cold. [he hands him the slip of paper.] take this 4 times a day and stay off airplanes. flying cesspools.
please don't get up. i'm sure you're very busy. [he gets a syringe from a cart.] i'm just gonna try and speed things up a little.
see? that's why he doesn't have to wear knee socks.
130. [powell looks scared and like he can't breathe.] the magic number. nothing here. foreman?
which means it's not the heart. so it must be the lungs. [goes over to the cart to put the syringe down not to get another syringe to calm the guy.] see? that wasn't so hard was it?
neither is mine. he's depressed. he'll feel much better after we cure him.
you can't know that without knowing what's wrong.
wow. [the ducklings snap to attention.] certainly a lot of interesting things to consider. stress ekg rules out the heart which means something's gotta be attacking his lungs. mycoplasmas or strep pneumo which probably means it's too late to do anything about it. we could try levofloxacin.
oh come on. he's old and sick and tiny. we can do whatever we want to him.
no all services rendered on a first-come first-served basis.
you're hurting me. [they let go powell begins to cough spitting out the meter.] fine; you don't help us we don't help you. [house faces him and speaks slowly.] your lungs slowly fill with fluid. you gasp to catch every breath but never can. every breath is petrifying. it'll be slow painful; torturous.
what if you could? how 'bout we make a deal? give me one more day. if i don't find out exactly what's wrong with you by then i help you die.
24 hours. come on it's not gonna kill you.
of course i can. chase says we do it all the time. [chase rolls his eyes.]
enough! you don't want me to kill him. fine. here's a big shock; i don't wanna kill him either. how do i not kill him? by you guys doing your job. we have 24 hours to figure out what's wrong with him. [impatiently waiting for ideas from the ducklings.] tick tock tick tock.
it's gonna take longer than 24 hours.
[nods.] great. do an amylase d-dimer c-reactive peptide get a urine and do a bronchial sputum while you're at it. [he indicates cameron.] you check his home and lab for radiation and toxins. [he indicates foreman.] and do a bone marrow biopsy.
nah. whatever you don't get done you can finish at the autopsy.
what'd the bone marrow biopsy show?
what? what've you been doing all night?
your prot<e9>g<e9>. what are these?
why?
or he's losing his memory.
yes we could assume that and we'd have nothing. or we could assume it's a symptom in which case whatever's in his lungs is also in his brain. unless you got something more promising.
keep testing 'til you find something. i'm going to my office to rest for awhile. [they all glare after him.]
not according to the history.
or he's telling the truth. which means fungus is still on the table.
bad news fast. good news you can take your time.
too bad. if his brain was addled we wouldn't have to listen to anything he says.
then we have no reason to talk to him. we still haven't ruled out fungus.
[sighs.] okay. next procedure; we sneak in turn back the clock. [wilson smiles cameron looks forlorn.]
nope. bone marrow biopsy revealed multiple myeloma. [chase and foreman exchange looks.] it's not good news but there are some treatments. [cameron is staring at house] we have to draw some blood
associated hyperviscosity syndrome; gummed up the blood vessels in your lungs.
mm. we call him dr. idiot. [chase rolls his eyes foreman crosses his arms.]
odd presentation.
just give me 12 more hours.
fair enough. give me six more hours. [powell purses his lips.] listen; there is no evidence that you are terminal.
no as a matter of fact i'm not.
everybody who can walk should get outta here. [house takes morphine and a syringe out of the kit.]
can't do what? administer a prescription painkiller to a patient who's in pain? go. make sure somebody sees you downstairs in the cafeteria.
[holding up syringe while talking to foreman.] what's gonna happen here is that someone's getting a butt-load of morphine. i'm not sure exactly who at this point. [foreman takes a moment to think it over and then leaves the room in a huff.]
nothing. [house injects the morphine into ezra's iv. ezra flatlines. house and chase stand there solemnly for a few moments. then house looks at his watch. house grabs the bed and pulls it away from the wall.]
getting a laryngoscope. [house grabs a laryngoscope.] don't just stand there help.
[interrupting.] yeah. a little something i like to call a lie. bad i know but it's way further down the list than murder. [he intubates ezra and starts to pump the ambu bag.] he's unconscious. no more whining. i'm gonna keep testing him. [chase looks confused and indignant.] go get a ventilator not gonna do this all night.
we can legally assume that he'd consent to whatever a reasonable person would consent to. [cut to house's office.]
[fake exasperation with a *hint* of real exasperation.] i try to kill him you're mad. i don't kill him you're mad.
were you in that room with him? was he wearing a tux while he was choking on his own plasma? keep doing the tests. take your time do it right. go. [turns to look at the mri.] get to work. [house studies the mri for a couple of seconds obviously expecting the ducklings to go do his bidding.] wait! [he turns in his chair. ducklings haven't moved and house is a twinge embarrassed for yelling but tries not to let it show.] cameron why'd you do these cuts so far down on this mri of his head?
you also caught the top of his lungs. there's scarring. [cameron is staring at him.] you do know that you can't really pierce me with your stares.
he can kill himself after we get him better. start him on an ivig for the lupus and get a colonoscopy. lupus could be hiding there.
drama queen.
thought you were only supposed to put on a pound a week during your last trimester.
[makes a drawn out whining sound.] not really a stunt. more of a trick a ruse a hoodwink.
ok. lying is sometimes good right? like when you're trying to teach someone a lesson about humility or something. all i'm trying to do is save his life. he's not gonna learn anything; i just thought the same principle might apply.
i coulda just let him die.
well we could; we completely disregarded his wishes.
it is comforting.
[raises voice speaking into her lapel pin as though it is a microphone.] how right you are dr. cuddy! we also don't pad our bills swipe samples from the pharmacy or fantasize about the teenage daughters of our patients either.
yeah. [walks away.] we really should spend some time talking about that. [cuddy sighs.]
[sighs.] so we know it's not lupus. what else could it be?
gonna need an open lung biopsy to confirm. [house goes into a lounge; chase and foreman follow.]
unless you've invented a new way of doing an open lung biopsy.
when you searched dr. powell's office did you find a copy of the january 1967 massachusetts medical journal?
i just figured if you're not doing any work you might like something to pass the time. centerfold's a killer. [house walks away leaving cameron curious.]
[fake cheering of an audience. wilson enters.]
it hurts. [sighs.] it's gonna keep on hurting. you gonna keep on asking?
resting comfortably.
i hate practicing medicine in high school.
i know what he was asking for; i just said no'.
to patients that i knew were terminal.
if we're gonna keep refusing to cure patients just to rein in my ego then we might start having a little problem with patient recruitment. [house's pager goes off.]
[leaving.] i'm a cripple remember. accommodations must be made.
didn't you find it interesting?
he was curious.
he wasn't doing anything his peers weren't doing.
he ignored the rights of the few to save many.
doesn't matter what i think. it's what you think that's relevant.
if he had control of his own body he'd be dead.
no you can't! you either help him live or you help him die; you can't have it both ways. [chase looks up at house from the operating room and shakes his head.]
well i guess it's not ipf. [ezra's heart monitor starts beeping.]
well maybe he'll die right now. make everything easy for all of us. [he leaves and cameron is alone in the observation room.]
no breath sounds on the right side; he's dropped his right lung. [removes stethoscope.] air's building up in his chest compressing his heart. [house makes an incision in ezra and places a chest tube in him which re-inflates the lung.]
withdraws from pain stimuli on the left side but not the right.
or he's lost sensation in some places.
only one way to tell. do some ata sensory evoked potentials.
only two ways to tell. get a hammer and check his deep tendon reflexes.
[long blink thinking.] only one more way to tell. pupillary reflexes.
see i was right; only one way to tell. do some ata sensory evoked potentials.
so wake him up. [house leaves.]
don't go towards the light. you'll fall and break your hip.
you took a little nap.
[interrupting.] sorry little deaf in one ear. your bone marrow was hypocellular; we ruled out lupus and pulmonary fibrosis but it looks like it could be attacking your nerves.
we need to attach some sensors to your skin.
look we can't do what you want; we've assigned a nurse to watch you so you can't do it either. so you might as well just let us do the test.
oh get over yourself. the ventilator puffed up your lungs; you'll be fine for a few hours. just let us run the tests. [ezra rips off some leads that were attached to him.]
ok. but first let's clean you up a little. [he grabs a glass of water and splashes a few drops of it on ezra's chest.] that feel nice?
just cleaning him up. what's it look like? [he walks over to the end of ezra's bed lifts up the sheet and sticks his head behind it.] pay no attention to the man behind the curtain. house runs his thumb down ezra's right foot and there is no reaction. he does the same to his left and this time the foot twitches.]
okay i'm going already. can't you see i'm a cripple? [house leaves.]
i was right; whatever is attacking his lungs is attacking his nerves.
no sensation in the left leg abdomen right arm. technology's overrated.
and bone marrow.
all potentially treatable. question is which. we need to catch the little bastards in the act. what's the largest organ?
we need to get a piece. [house leaves them standing there.]
i want you to get a skin sample for a biopsy.
[walking towards the desk.] kawasaki's disease lymphoma and sarcoidosis are all treatable.
but you do; you know everything.
[slams cane down on desk.] exactly! you can't decide if we're helping or hurting him; if he's good or bad; or if you want paper plastic or a burlap sack. do your damn job. [house starts to leave.]
fine tell the truth. just get me a pound of flesh.
not as good as you think i am.
yeah right. he's moving it on the street isn't he?
[he stops and thinks.] i plan to. in a couple of years.
felt his glands too. [ali gives a slight laugh.]
yeah. me too.
congo red.
what the hell else would i mean by congo red?'
an abnormal protein is building up inside the cells of his body; shutting down his organs one by one. explains everything; the infiltrates on the x-ray the bone marrow kidney failure.
it did.
we didn't push him hard enough. [to chase.] add the stain; let's find out.
change the polarization of the light already. [results confirm that it is amyloidosis.]
[interrupting.] not outta mine. i had a muse.
you have amyloidosis; it's in your lungs kidneys bone marrow and brain.
if i was lying i wouldn't tell you the subtype is aa. it's terminal.
[shakes his head a little.] no. i just got in.
if i did would you really wanna know? [cuddy nods and then leaves.]
[puts his hand on her shoulder.] i'm proud of you.
10-yr-old boy screams for his life for no reason.
and he went to 3 different doctors who all said just that.
or it's something medical sounding like dysesthesia. parents are convinced that there's something wrong with their son. [he suddenly walks out of the office; the ducklings quickly get up and follow him.]
elevator. [he presses the button and waits for it.] dad was on wall street mom was a partner in an accounting firm when their son was diagnosed with autism they both quit.
they've studied this kid heard him scream a million times. did 10 years of caring for him this is the first time they've brought him to a hospital.
don't be so quick to dismiss pain.
down. stool sample to check for parasites blood culture to rule out infection and ana for lupus.
check the house. run a lung ventilation scan. lungs are in the chest too right?
of course not this isn't a veterinary hospital. zing! [he pushes the door open into the clinic.] look if you don't think this kid is worth saving--
well that's too bad it's a good point. kid's just a lump with tonsils. you know what it's going to be like trying to put an autistic kid into a nuclear scanner? i don't envy you guys. [he opens the door to cuddy's office and leaves them to their job.]
i want my old carpet back. [he bangs his cane on to her desk she's on the phone.]
i want my old carpet back.
yeah my blood. which makes the carpet part of me i want it back. i want to be buried with it.
it's my office; it's where i work where i think where i save lives allowing you to brag to rich people so they'll give you more money to spend on mris and low-cut tops. i want it back the way it was.
i shall not return to my office until every patented durable microfibre has been restored to its rightful place.
[banging on the floor with his cane.] attica! attica! attica! attica! attica! [stops banging the cane and looks at her.] attica?
hello girl whose name i don't remember but whose dad i treated so i don't really know why she's here.
right. [he presses two fingers into two spots on her forehead.] does that hurt?
of course it is. [he puts the earpieces of the stethoscope back into his ear as she unzips her shirt... she doesn't have anything on underneath. house's jaw drops and he goes rather wide-eyed.] kinda had access through the shirt this'll work. [he listens to her heart.]
exactly when did new jersey run out of horny 17-yr-old boys?
can't leave right now. [turns back to ali.] well congratulations you are the proud owner of your very own rhino thing.
can't leave because cuddy says i can't leave.
i know this is hard for all of us but thanks to doctor cuddy i don't have an office so i have to work here.
it's unusable. so whatever's bothering him it wasn't his lungs. what about the kid's house?
we already had that discussion. did we get a fecal smear? [he purposely says the last bit louder to ick out the people in the clinic.]
nope cuddy says i have to work here.
and since i can't work in my office.
devious. saw it in a james bond movie. [raising the volume.] fecal smear talk to me!
put back my carpet?
fecal matter is there a sample we can look at?
go up his rear and get a smear. which reminds me i kinda feel like a bagel. [he walks out of the clinic.]
so what makes fluid fill the lining of a kid's lungs?
yeah. so you stuck your finger in the kid and gave him a pleural effusion. [he moves stuff off the edge of wilson's desk so he can perch on it.] you ever considered getting a manicure?
i said it was a power play someone answers yes to option a you don't move on to option b.
i smelled weakness. get the kid an echocardiogram. [he starts playing with the zen garden on wilson's desk when wilson enters his office. he looks confused at seeing the team in there the ducklings look slightly embarrassed. wilson looks at the name on his door.]
the fluid comes back in exudate; get him on broad spectrum antibiotics.
thought you wouldn't mind sharing offices for a while.
that is so not zen.
so you want mornings or afternoons?
yep.
because you're good at that stuff.
[picks up a random toy.] is there anything you'll throw out?
so you gotta keep it until she [he draws his hand across his neck and makes an execution sound.]
[turns around and feigns surprise.] oh 2 east coast time? [cameron looks resigned.] i thought you meant pacific which is stupid of me i guess. [the ducklings start to get up.] what about parasites?
oh well we should go then. [ducklings are about to get up again.] that just leaves cancer. get a lung biopsy.
well i'm sorry was there somewhere you needed to be?
carpet?
nothing to talk about.
huh. a lot to discuss china patterns--
right couldn't be that she finds me interesting and attractive. has to be that she's insane.
well maybe i'd be better adjusted if she was.
is this about the carpet? do you think i'll back off if you block all my fun?
i'm having fun. i'm not having sex.
she's not dangerous.
she's pretty.
i'm with you so far.
oh give her a break she's not dangerous she's... insightful. [cuddy walks away and back into the meeting room. house presses himself up against the glass of the door and shouts into the room at all the business men and cuddy.] you can't stop our love! [the business men are startled; cuddy gives an embarrassed smile in response. house looks smug.]
for the love of god can't somebody shut that kid up? got people trying to work around here. [to wilson.] why don't you show him a teddy bear or something?
somebody you'll never send a gift to.
[he picks up the gas mask.] high test please. [to adam.] hey hey hey! [he puts the mask to his own nose and starts loudly breathing from it for adam to see.]
eating the red berries. [he keeps breathing from the mask and then tries to put the mask on adam's nose and mouth. adam isn't fighting as hard against it but is still protesting. house looks very high and keeps blinking a lot. he breaths from the mask again and then tries it on adam. this time adam accepts and is knocked out in a couple of seconds.]
no that wasn't trust. that was self-preservation.
[tries to get up and unsteadily hangs on to the overhanging lights.] monkey's afraid to eat the red berries until he sees another monkey eat them. monkey see monkey do that's all it was. your kid's still just as messed up as when we admitted him.
you have pretty hair.
no hope is what's making them miserable. what they should do is get a cocker spaniel. a dog would look them in the eye wag his tail when he's happy lick their face show them love.
spoken like a true circle queen. see skinny socially privileged white people get to draw this neat little circle and everyone inside the circle is normal anyone outside the circle should be beaten broken and reset so they can be brought into the circle. failing that they should be institutionalized or worse pitied.
why would you feel sorry for someone who gets to opt out of the inane courteous formalities which are utterly meaningless insincere and therefore degrading? this kid doesn't have to pretend to be interested in your back pain or your excretions or your grandma's itchy place. can you imagine how liberating it would be to live a life free of all the mind-numbing social niceties? i don't pity this kid i envy him.
wow. liver cells under his arm. i wonder what he's got where his liver's supposed to be.
anyone got a clue how liver cells got into the kid's armpit?
make yourself at home. so think maybe gray's anatomy got it all wrong?
so what's the difference between cancer cells and liver cells why can one pass through walls but the other can't?
so if the liver cells are damaged...
so if the liver cells are damaged -- it's theoretically possible to pass into the lymphatic system. liver failure could also explain pleural effusion even the heart issues.
hmm daddy does seem the type to use a rubber. so it's not viral. [he gets up and starts pacing.] just leaves a lot of boozerosis.
cirrhosis explains the symptoms; heart problems lungs.
how would you know that? kid can't talk. why'd you think i took this case? he's not going to give away the ending.
yes they are everything you'd want in a parent. unfortunately their kid is nothing you'd want. when a baby is born it's perfect; little fingers little toes plump perfect pink and brimming with unbridled potential. then it's downhill some hills steeper than others. parents get off on their kid's accomplishments. [house picks up one of wilson's toys which then says bend over and relax.] cute! they'll annoy you with trophy rooms and report cards. hell they'll even show you a purple cow and tell you what a keen eye for color their kid has. [wilson bursts into the office looks annoyed and walks back out again.] but this kid he doesn't smile he doesn't hug them he doesn't laugh. his parents get nothing the right to brag that their kid picked orange juice out of a line-up.
do a biopsy to confirm cirrhosis and don't try and pawn it off on wilson he's going to be busy with cuddy.
my parents love me unconditionally. get out of here.
liver biopsy?
how's it going?
what'd you find in the stool sample?
i didn't ask what you didn't find; i asked what you did find in the stool sample.
what's the matter? you afraid of the man?
uh oh too late.
you're meeting with a guggenheim in 15 minutes wearing that?
calcium carbonate that's uhh... antidiarrheal right?
think that's significant? think hard poops are significant? [turns back to cuddy.] two and a half? never threaten unless you're ready to deliver makes you look weak. thank god you don't have children.
take a message.
wow that's like the one thing that would get me out of here.
okay what else do we know?
it's not his liver his heart or his lungs. the calcium carbonate in his stool.
or they didn't do it at all. calcium carbonate's also what's in chalk.
forget the chalk.
yes and then i said forget the chalk you must be very confused. this kid's got pica. take him to a buffet he's going to eat the table.
we're not looking for typical poisons we're looking for anything that he can put in his mouth; matches spiders bricks.
even better. [to foreman.] hansel get samples of the gingerbread house; bag everything.
you can get into a lot of trouble being here.
yeah i got that. so did everyone else they think you're a stalker.
yes i actually made that argument.
that's the plan.
i'm surprised that tourism isn't a bigger industry up there.
22 weeks is enough for an embryo to grow arms and legs.
yeah who cares what judges think.
you are over 10 years younger than me. [ali makes a face.] i said over.
gotta go!
doctor cuddy do you happen to know the way to the icelandic consulate? this young woman a stranger to me was just asking directions.
she needed a ride.
after that look i'm feeling a little frisky looks like you're up.
the frisky it went away.
if i leave her alone can i have my carpet back?
if i forget about my carpet can i have her?
i'm not trying to upset cuddy; i'm trying to figure out what's wrong with the patient. continue.
you've obviously never had a bad trip.
why can't you be more like the other age inappropriate girls who have a thing for me? just accept me for me. continue.
what time does he wake up?
then what? walk me through it.
i'm trying to prove he ate the plant.
there are two possibilities either the parents saw him eat the plant or the kid has unsupervised time and eats plants instead of playing blocks.
so what do we do? nothing? wait for the kid to tell us? what?
to talk to him.
ever see your son eat a bush?
adam! [the boy opens his eyes a little droopily.] did you eat something at your house something that made you sick? i need you to show me what you ate. [adam makes protesting noises.]
neither can you. [house takes one of the learning boards that adam has and starts sticking pictures on it as he talks to illustrate his point.] this is your backyard; you may know it as mel's diner. here's your sandbox your jungle gym under it is this. [he picks up a photo of the jimson weed and puts it on the board.] i need to know if you ate this adam. [adam isn't really looking and is still making protesting noises.]
adam you have to tell me because if you don't [he picks up the psp and shows the game over screen on it.] it'll be game over you'll be dead.
show me what you ate. adam! show me what you ate.
[at the podium in the front of the room talking in a spot-on southern accent.] come on in brothers and sister. welcome to the house of the lord!
[one of the strangers leaves. house points to the whiteboard next to him on the podium.] we have been blessed with the miracle of a new symptom. brother can you testify as to why this poor child's eyeball rolled back into his head? [uses his cane to point at chase.]
the wicked shall deceive ye because they have turned from the lord and are idiots his ocular muscle didn't paralyze it pirouetted.
it is easier for a wise man to gain access to heaven!
[back to his normal american accent.] we'd be seeing other symptoms besides a single eye misalignment like a coma and you've already testified.
so he has 3 tumors and we missed all of them. what's the opposite of a miracle?
you remove this kid's eye he's only going to be half as good at not making eye contact.
you're ugly when you're jealous.
she's even more perfect than i thought.
you say sick i say freestyling.
come on you're not that bad.
why would you lie like this? do you not have room in your heart for love?
i didn't believe the kids when they said that suzie was sleeping with johnny. didn't believe them then i don't believe them now i don't care that suzie married johnny he's mine.
[softly.] no she doesn't.
it was a medical exam. i was listening to her heart; it went greg house greg house greg house.
listen to me; do you have any idea what you'd have to look forward to if you stayed with me? nine chances out of ten we'd both wind up in a jail.
i'm saying it 'coz it's true. inside of us we both know that you belong with victor. [she looks confused.] is there a victor in your class? [she shakes her head.] well if you're not with someone your age you'll regret it; maybe not today maybe not tomorrow but soon and for the rest of your life.
we'll always have fresno. i'm no good at being noble but it doesn't take much to see that the problems of two little people don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world. someday you'll understand that. [he raises her chin.] now now here's looking at you-- [he notices that her tears are milky.] damn. was there an earthquake when you were in fresno?
i ask all my girlfriends that.
damn.
it's not love you have spore in your brain; coccidioides immitis. california's full of them they get an earthquake they get released into the air you breathe it in you get a cold turns into sinus congestion aches weakness milky tears and sometimes loss of inhibition and judgment. damn! [he takes up a prescription pad.]
[hands her a prescription.] you'll probably live. damn!
hey! don't touch his eye!
like i said don't touch his eye.
why isn't he in surgery?
better not take him in kill the lights. [he sits on adam's bed.] he's seeing them all the time.
[using a light to peer into adam's pupil.] he's telling us what he's seeing telling us exactly what was wrong with him drawing them for us over and over again. nobody knew how to speak autistic. when i asked him what he ate he even told me that. [he holds up the picture of the sandbox.]
[peers into the pupil again and now we can see the squiggly lines adam was drawing... they're worms.] hello my pretties. it's not a tumor foreman it's worms swimming in his eye. animal makes potty in the sandbox boy plays in the sandbox boy eats the sand you can probably tell where this is going by now.
raccoon roundworms are not excreted by their human host.
all of it? worms spread from his gut to the rest of his body. attacked his lungs that's what made him scream and caused the effusion. [cgi of all this as house explains.] invade his liver sending dead liver cells coursing through his system it attacked his eye and the muscles surrounding it making his eyeball do a back flip. laser photo coagulation can fix the eye and high dose of benzimidazole should kill the worms.
good news he's going to be with you for a long long time.
at what point does a person endlessly lecturing someone make him a jerk? [silence for a while as they watch the family.] first tongue kiss an 8 on the happiness scale. (possibly harking back to the scale wilson was talking about in 3.01 meaning.) your child being snatched back from the brink of death that's a 10. they're clocking in at a very tepid 6.5 because they know what they have to go back to.
yeah i know see ya.
children?
it explains the marriage. who the hell gets married at 20?
show me a 20-yr-old who's not in love. you get married at 20 you're going to be shocked at who you're living with at 30. [he looks out the glass wall to find wilson chatting up a pretty nurse - they seem to be enjoying their conversation and the nurse is laughing at some joke wilson has made]
who's he talking to?
it's got an ass technically that makes it a who.
you seen her here before?
you think that's funny ask him about the time he sabotaged my cane.
something about not getting too uppity with normal folks who walk good.
you sprinted through 3 bad marriages into an affair with a dying patient - now a naughty nurse? how many more failed relationships are we both going to have to deal with before you learn to love yourself? and i mean that in a literal way.
i know you.
you're lying to me that's interesting.
why is she hanging out here?
she's in peds it's the next wing over.
if he's not hitting that then why's she here?
so explain them. wake me when they've done an exploratory laparotomy. anybody know her? know her story?
belly pain plus throat swelling.
got a better idea? [silence] then stretch away. start her on floroquinolone for the salmonella.
fascinating. have you considered a career as a memoirist? [he sits down on the stool] let's see it.
sorry i thought you were waiting 2 hours didn't know you wanted to chat. hi i'm greg. how 'bout that local sports team? [he checks out tritter's crotch as tritter pulls his pants down] it's not an infection.
you want me to touch you? it's your private place. you're chewing nicotine gum which causes dehydration which causes wear and tear. try a lubricant or foreplay if you're cheap.
sorry already met this month's quota of useless tests for stubborn idiots. [he pops a vicodin]
wow you're like a... detective or something.
please stop it's hard to write through the haze of bitter tears.
nyeah i asked for decrappinated coffee. [he takes his cane and is about to walk out when tritter deliberately kicks at his cane. house loses balance and falls against the door. he looks back in surprise]
bend over. [tritter smiles like it's a joke]
if you have an infection you'd have a fever. you're chewing nicotine gum which messes with the weather in your mouth so i need to [he shows the thermometer] vacation elsewhere.
and wait 'til i put the thermometer in. [tritter tries to look back to see what house is doing] uh uh you break it you bought it.
leaving early today. [he returns tritter's file] did you ever get that thing where you're sure you've forgotten something but you can't figure out what? [nurse shakes her head] guess it can't be that important. [he throws away the swabbing test he did on tritter and walks off]
why?
salmonella? that was a total stretch.
then it was a dumb thing to say now it's smart. she's got the rash so we know she's unusually susceptible to allergic reactions so that's what brought her in. probably the peanut butter in her sandwich.
that's because you foolishly tested her while she was lying down.
and getting robbed. always gets my heart rate up. give her the same food she ate at the diner and stick her on the treadmill.
you don't think i'm going to get a response?
you're on 50 bucks.
a hundred bucks? if you say so. [he walks into a room and chase and foreman exchange a look before walking off together]
told you it would work.
we can spend all day arguing right and wrong. give me the hundred bucks.
we could spend all day arguing whether we bet or not. give me the hundred bucks.
so psychosomatic? panic attack? [house takes cameron's stethoscope and begins to break into a locker.]
mine. chest stomach throat. what does it all mean?
i know that. [the locker opens.] oh that is so annoying! wilson's girlfriend's left her stuff in my locker again.
relax you know they're going to blame
can we get back to the medicine?
so it's just a coincidence that they both got crippling stomach pains. wow they really are a great couple. so much in common. one blue shoe <U+0096> what do you think that means?
you feeling luckier?
two hundred it is.
aha! brochure to a jazz festival in the poconos this weekend.
four five six novels no music. what does that mean?
it means she spends her time reading not listening. she'd only want to go and watch jazz if the only person wanted to go. she has a martyr complex. issues of inferiority.
infectious or environmental. all you have to do is check out parasites viruses bacteria fungi prions radiation toxins chemicals or it's internet porn related. i'll check the internet you guys cover the rest of the stuff.
that cheating bastard!
right i bet he told you that she's the love of his life.
there's a reason that we don't let kids vote or drink or work in the salt mines. they're idiots! 20-year-olds fall in and out of love more often than they change their oil filters. which they should do more often.
good. now go rub their lying cheating privates with a cotton swab.
what's that you say? you have a problem with interracial couples?
no! haven't any of your shorties ever been whities?
i don't care about color. as long as they can help me breed a superior race.
sorry you're right. that kind of prejudice is totally fine.
take the wife off the steroids. if she spikes a fever we'll know it's an infection. if she doesn't it's environmental.
he got off easy. i almost gave him a colonoscopy.
hmm only ate half your breakfast. feeling a little sick this morning?
i'm a man of principle. i don't care how much time and money it costs you to defend me.
no empty coffee cups. off the caffeine. good for baby.
sorry that would make it harder to ignore you. can't ignore that rapidly expanding first trimester ass though.
you add brain involvement to the chest stomach throat what've you got?
leaving environmental. what flavor?
they both got it meaning it's infection or environmental and since it's not an infection
maybe we didn't and it's sarcoidosis.
tell that to the clusters of sarcoidosis cases.
if sarcoidosis has two environmental causes it has environmental causes. we just don't know all of them yet. husband's chest. he has slightly enlarged hylar lymph nodes. sarcoidosis explains almost all of their symptoms including her getting worse off the steroids.
that's what almost' means.
oh 90%?
fine i'll consult a specialist. [he climbs over the balcony wall and into wilson's office.]
love to gossip but i've got work to do. is this sarcoidosis?
in a way aren't we all guilty of bribing the janitor of taking the file and giving it to me? yes i take my share of the blame but society's also <U+0096>
she is so wrong for you. you know she filed a form so the hospital would take extra withholding. who does that?
i didn't try to break up your marriages; you did that yourself.
yes that keeps me up at night. that and the loch ness monster global warming evolution and other fictional concepts. although a big romantic weekend in the poconos could change everything. [wilson is very confused. they make eyes at each other and points to house and himself a few times in apparent disbelief.]
he says it's sarcoidosis. start them both on methotrexate.
if wilson's wrong. we'll biopsy her just to be sure.
good point. let's biopsy something safer like her shoes.
why? this guy write with his stomach?
or to save her. she's the love of his life remember?
how're you going to stop me? call cuddy?
no there isn't! not unless one of them wants to die a horrible painful death.
in a couple days! will the guardian convince the disease to hold off eating her brain until we can get the legalities worked out?
uh we had a nice chat. did you know he's a rotarian? listen she'll die without the biopsy.
then have wilson talk to the husband. wilson kills people left and right no one ever sues him.
nah probably better to just let that couple die.
great job. why don't you just shoot him in the head?
they're dead. yelling at you might prevent you from screwing up like this --
your job was to get me the biopsy.
two options: biopsy or no biopsy. he chose the third no treatment. how do you even do that?
how much morphine is the husband on?
decrease it! drugs cloud people's judgement. cold turkey you sucker.
good point.
did i ask you guys to follow me?
they'll catch on if they notice that he's off the morphine drip. shoot him up with one of these puppies instead.
you do understand it's not really a puppy.
how is that unethical? it'll lead to a diagnosis!
which will lead to a diagnosis didn't i just say that?
fine. now i'm just going to find someplace safe to hide this where i won't be tempted to use it.
if they die now they'll never be able to grow old and tired of each other. [he hands the meds to foreman and leaves.]
guess i can't use that trick again huh? [foreman tries to open the cart but it's all locked up.]
it's a pretty smart plan jerry but i'm on to you. there's only one good reason to kill the biopsy. you poisoned your wife and don't want the coppers to get wise.
oh. then you're just a moron!
only if this thing hits your brain you moron! i can't stress that moron thing enough. you're killing your wife!
careful. once you say that and you're on wife #2 you're gonna feel real guilty about saying that. feel that? get used to it the pain's gonna get a lot worse.
wanna bet?
dude she's in a coma. who're you trying to impress?
i need a court order to biopsy this woman's brain.
good.
less good.
but you'll accept an apology.
not really a recipe for sincerity.
here's what's gonna happen: you go brag to your friends about how you made the big nasty doctor go poop in his pants i get cuddy off my back by telling her i humiliated myself here's the catch <U+0096> we're both gonna be lying. i'm not apologizing. if anything you deserved a bigger thermometer. [he leaves cuddy's office to find foreman and chase.] what's wrong?
then that's what's right. you cut the stubborn jerk's head open and take a slice.
he'll get his wish. he's dying just not in a way that's going to help his wife.
so what?
why does he have it? what does it tell us?
good. now let's hear it again but now with a more environmental or infectious feeling.
fine. start her on hematin for porphyria.
take out the dead bowel it's all we can do. and biopsy it. if foreman's right it might save him. if foreman's wrong it might save both of them.
unless he's been tossing down cans of frosty lactic acid the bowel is dead. what we're looking for is a reason it's dead.
nothing's something. forget the isochemia. add the edema and swelling.
probably not definitely. okay back to the beginning. what did we talk about? anything i want to hear it all again.
yeah yeah yeah. love of his life. don't you have to wait till he's dead to make that determination?
why did they run off?
kids talk about running off not many do it. what was the reason?
how'd you know the dad was racist?
you see racism everywhere. maybe he just didn't like this black girl.
she has pretty eyes. forget infectious. forget environmental. defective dna is keeping them from making a critical protein hence the fluid build-up. hits the throat stomach chest and brain.
hereditary angioedema. symptoms fit perfectly.
is it a coincidence that your sister has great hair or that these two have green eyes?
ew god no! that would be sick. half-brother and sister. different moms. dad must have had an affair with her mom. that's why he flipped out when the kids started dating he had it himself probably why the pills.
test them for hae or paternity. it's going to take a day. she doesn't have a day. start treating and see what happens.
awesome can i tell them?
good plan. you've just got to keep them away from doctors the internet and anyone who's not a total moron.
he might be a little vexed that you kept letting him hump his sister in the mean time.
noble of you to take that risk. tell them or i will.
where are you going? [no answer] foreman you're not missing a blue shoe are you? com<U+0097> you can't bet when you know the answer beforehand!
what? [foreman leaves and meets up with wendy in the hallway.]
if you've come to return the thermometer don't bother. i've moved on.
oh come on. this isn't because i was speeding it's because i'm latino.
sorry cool jacket. only pockets for important stuff.
50 buck ticket. is that your way of beating me up or is that the price for sticking something in you?
i wasn't weaving i'm not drunk you've got no reason to <U+0096>
does that polite crap ever work on people? [tritter grabs him and does the above for him.]
i'm a cripple who works in a hospital. you don't think i've got a valid prescription?
excusez-moi gar<e7>on! hello?! it's 11 o' clock. which means my friend is ready for his sponge bath and i shouldn't be here. hey! gomer pyle! i know you can hear me!
so many great idiot icons to choose from.
either arraign me or let me go.
what took you so long?
nothing. [he takes a vicodin.]
where's your car?
some idiot cop with crotch rot obviously thought that i didn't treat him with the deference due to a man of his stature. trumped up a traffic stop next thing i know i'm sharing a cage with a guy who thinks that showers are the way the devil gets inside you.
i don't think she needs to. [wilson looks at him and he shrugs.] i'm innocent!
the guy wanted to punish me he did it. it's over.
i already got one.
same thing they say about the doctor who lends 15 grand to a friend he knows can't pay him back. [wilson gives him a look and sighs.] relax you'll get it. where am i going to take off to? [they get into wilson's car.] does salma hayek live in mexico or spain?
if i am this is one lame hallucination.
if you ever end up in a bar with a cambridge woman's heavyweight eight do not accept the offer of an upside-down kamikaze shot.
fat guy in a coma i know.
nope but the wall between wilson's office and this one is thinner than you think; which means we need to stop talking about what a pathetic loser he is. start treating jabba for pickwickian syndrome. his 96 double zs are probably putting pressure on his chest suffocating him. [he finds some spare clothing.]
for you and me what's normal for a hippopotamus? [cameron gives him a look foreman looks annoyed.] get a detailed medical history.
talk to the neighbors search the house. let's see what else shamu's been up to besides eating. this conversation is over because i have officially run out of clever things to call the guy.
so your arm only hurts after you lie on top of it all night.
hmm. well have you thought about i don't know not doing that?
well there's always surgery.
you're not sleeping on some cartilage; you're sleeping on your arm.
well it is your left a guy's gotta sleep.
while following my every move is flattering a single rose on my doorstep each morning would be more enticing.
you going to add that to my list of charges? [he takes out a vicodin and swallows it.]
is that based on your years of experience arresting innocent people? the way you're going at that gum it's obviously not having the desired effect. you're the addict; you're going to be back at the butts in a month. you're just taking out your frustration on me because my meds actually work. why don't you quit while you're ahead before you end up as a security guard working the night shift at some strip mall?
apparently cuddy's widened her sperm donor search to include neanderthals.
it's a joke. like cuddy would ever want a kid. or a kid would ever want cuddy. hello that's why it's funny! why are you guys here?
[he turns to cameron.] what'd you find out?
danish modern and russian gymnasts?
it's not syphilis.
because you get stds from people you trust. people you don't feel you need to protect yourself from. whatever he has is connected to his gut not what's below it. mri his brain; look for clots.
so do a ct.
then just start treatment.
either start treatment or start building a stronger mri. whatever you do do it fast. the longer he stays in the coma the less likely it is he'll ever wake up.
what's this?
thanks but i don't need it. i assume you told inspector clouseau that i have a valid prescription for the vicodin?
i'm not a pain doctor i'm a pain patient.
bump on the noggin doesn't explain the fever.
referring to the fund-raising funbags by the royal 'we' now?
i specifically told them to skip the boring testing part and jump right to the dangerous treatment.
[shrugs.] kids these days - got no respect for other people's property.
looks like cameron is going to be having a lot more ideas in future. who knew that being bloated and bitchy could actually come in handy?
or we do all of the above. [points his cane at foreman.] you check his belly for patches. [points at cameron.] you check underneath for sores. and you [chase looks up.] just sit on your ass.
it's probably her mom i bet she's huge. she's from the midwest. [looks at the salad.] since when did you eat beets?
[picks a cherry tomato from the salad and pops it into his mouth.] cameron. she's lying destroying hospital equipment telling cuddy off gotta find out where she got the fat scratch fever.
or it could just be pity she feels guilty about being born beautiful so she overcompensates by being nice to ugly people. would explain why she gets along so well with you.
cameron sees a clump of dirt and she thinks of me.
you started it.
you say no way i say yeah no way.
[in his southern accent.] looks like we got ourselves a mystery.
oh sure. places to go people to eat.
did you tell him that statistics also say he's a big fat idiot?
[bursts out in sudden mocking laughter.] you see what he did there? the patient's like me the patient's three me's. if i were him-- [house suddenly gets a thoughtful look.] maybe it's not such a mystery after all.
enjoying your salisbury steak?
and you must be full of baloney. a lot of it.
and christians. oh and black people. no one in their right mind comes out of a coma and immediately asks to go home with an unknown condition which means that either you're not in your right mind or it's not an unknown condition. so what is it? you tried to off yourself?
that's a huge leap of logic.
then it's a condition you've already had diagnosed or it's something you know you've inherited. let's see your stomach has the deep-seated feelings of abandonment written all over it which points towards sexual abuse. well a fear of hospitals; that points to a more specific traumatic event so i'm going to say-- [takes a deep breath.] your mom in the hospital with a candlestick. and by candlestick of course i mean inherited otc deficiency.
thyrotoxic periodic paralysis?
leukoencephalopathy?
[mobile rings he picks up.] what? when? [he puts it down.] to be continued.
what are you doing here?
in case you hadn't noticed those are prescription bottles. now i'm not an expert on linguistics per se but i think that means they were prescribed. [he picks up a guitar lying on the floor and puts it back into its proper case.]
ever occurred to you that's why i don't miss a day?
send him home.
either i'm right and he knows what's wrong he's just too stubborn to admit it or i was right and it's pickwick's. treatment just had a delayed effect.
being engulfed in an electric blanket of blubber could explain the fever.
he does not want our help which means he doesn't want your help.
[finally spots wilson at the vending machines.] send him home. [turns away and approaches wilson.] what'd you tell that cop?
nothing as in nothing; or as in nothing to cause him to think that i have a stash in my apartment?
obviously not.
he searched my house found a butt load of pills. [wilson sighs.] a guy's gotta be prepared for a rainy day.
and because i never know when you're going to be in one of your moods and cut me off.
i'm not the one who talked to the cop.
where's chase?
interesting. nf-2 is also inherited which means i was right.
between the first pickwick's and the second pickwick's i said it was inherited. [brenda is coming out of george's room and house rather abruptly grabs the patient file from her.]
we have a rather large piece of tempered glass that begs to differ.
nice audible peyton.
discharge report says he didn't eat his breakfast. humpty dumpty didn't get to be the size of all the king's horses by skipping the most important meal of the day. what causes coma fever and a loss of appetite?
but his stomach has the food we eat no longer comes from america's heartland it comes from south america's deforested jungle land where lettuce now grows and lettuce pickers now poop. get a sample of his csf before the little bugs that are now feasting on his brain move on to dessert.
so go straight to the source.
so we've ruled out his parents prostitutes the arugula - means either--
or you missed a tumor on the mri.
[house finally seems to have found his wallet.] mind? [foreman steps out of his way.]
to get a 400 dollar butt plug.
he's going to have to get his own. come on; let's see if we can get this thing figured out by the time we get to the elevator.
yeah he's a delight. you don't get to ms with coma as the first symptom blindness plus coma says diabetes. [he presses the button to call the lift with his cane.] just in time.
were normal when you tested it. he's been in and out of a coma whatever's going on is waxing and waning unlike his pant size which only waxes. which also points to diabetes. test him again this time add a glucose tolerance test and a hec. [the lift arrives.]
[steps in and pushes the button for the floor he wants.] agreed; except for the part about doing it first.
the butt plug was my way of saying mind your own business; apparently too subtle.
all of which i had a prescription for.
i'm in a lot of pain. this is all because some cop came into the clinic i was rude to him. this is his way of getting back at me.
his insane reaction to a simple rectal thermometer reading [he gets a chuckle out of the lawyer.] probably says a lot more about his mother than it says about me.
i'm not interested in a plea bargain.
there is no this there's a him; the only thing i'm guilty of is humiliating a bully. i wasn't speeding i wasn't impaired i didn't resist and i certainly wasn't distributing narcotics to anyone but myself because i need those narcotics.
that a smile like mine can't lose. [he then pulls a funny face and flashes it at both of them.] what did the test say?
what about diabetes?
so you would rather be a blind invalid than admit the fact that maybe you might have a little problem with overeating? and by a little problem of course i mean you've eaten yourself half to death.
i go where the symptoms tell me to go. right now they're asking why this stuff is the first thing you've ever refused to swallow. [he picks up a bottle of juice and tries to put it into george's hand. george jerks his hand away.]
grocery stores giving away medical degrees with the free turkeys now? the sooner you drink this the sooner i get to go waste my time with something else. [he tries to put it near george's mouth.]
no dessert 'til you've finished your dinner. [he pushes the bottle back at george and they both struggle with the bottle and end up splashing loads of juice all over george.]
just trying to force a horse to-- [he suddenly notices something about george's grip and lets go. he looks at george's fingers and the light of realization comes into his eyes. he grabs his cane puts the bottle of juice back down and walks out of the room ducklings in tow.]
get x-rays of his hands then bronc him do a sputum cytology and check his csf for anti-hu antibodies.
tell him that lung cancer is in no way connected to obesity.
we're not; lung cancer's got nothing to do with--
you didn't notice his fingers?
should have pissed him off. he would have grabbed you and you would have felt the bones they're not just fat they're clubbed.
so was he.
he's a complicated man.
nothing. i just got a call from my lawyer he gave the da copies of my prescriptions. as soon as they confirm that it's bona fide they're going to drop the possession dui and resisting arrest. as soon as i pay my 85 dollars speeding ticket and impound fine i get my bike back.
you guess?
alright i give up who was it? who in your family had the weight problem?
you care for everybody. you only lie and stand up to cuddy for a few.
you're avoiding the question.
almost everything. [cameron grins.] wasn't you was it?
nope but it'd be interesting.
[mouth full wiping his hands.] this is vegetative-state guy. better company. [to gabe.] hey hey tell him about those sherpa's you dropped acid with in st. patrick's cathedral.
[beat then serious.] what'd you tell the cop?
[shrugs.] so everything's good then.
there is no case unless they can prove that either i got the drugs illegally or i sold them illegally. i didn't do the second you lied about the first. game over.
important thing is you keep prescribing the same amount of drugs to me. or it'll look suspicious.
nothing. what're you doing?
chips?
wanna see something really cool?
i saw you leaving last tuesday; practically tripped over two guys on your way out. but you had no problem opening doors. it's called akinetopsia. you can't see things when they move. and since you haven't been hit by a bus i assume it's intermittent. probably accompanied by seizures which made me think that i can set one off by flashing a...
god i love this family!
maybe it's inherited.
it's not his eeg. it's his father's. when it comes to cortical seizures like father like son.
similarities are interesting though.
his house burned down; went back in to get his wife. firefighters found him unconscious three feet from the bedroom asphyxiated.
test his dna. start with adrenomyeloneuropathy.
[over his shoulder.] check out the home.
dna?
dna test again. try unverricht-lundborg and late-onset lafora's.
well not me. i'll be leaving early. but you guys can.
stop all treatment.
well they obviously aren't helping. given the fact that he's an alcoholic there's a good chance his liver wasn't so hot when he came in. anti-seizure drugs they just pushed him over the edge.
i was hoping you'd know.
genetic.
we need a better history.
i commend your observational skills.
[correcting.] vegetative state. much easier. this guy's no terri schiavo his brain's all there he moves around muscles have barely atrophied just waiting for a fairy-tale kiss. after i do that stick a needle in him.
there are reports out of south africa about a pill that'd temporarily revive someone in a vegetative state. we've all seen awakenings. it made me cry. i wanna cry.
[drawling] i can out draw you mysterious stranger.
be reasonable. there's no way this is gonna work.
i'm risking getting sued. that's the only objection here.
good news for legal. only family he's got is upstairs dying.
whooaaaaaii!
[smiling.] coolest thing ever. any history of seizure in your family?
liver disease?
interesting. your internal clock kept ticking. how deep does that awareness go? pick up scraps of conversations do you have a vague sense that the hospital administrator dresses like a trollop?
or that the new star wars movies were a disappointment?
how 'bout your wife's side of the family? any history of seizures there?
technically vegetative state guy was woken by... yeah caustic guy.
gotta get him a steak before i can ask him anymore questions.
didn't seem to emotionally register that his son is sick.
it's possible. 'course always the simple explanation. maybe he just doesn't like his son.
the delusion that fathering a child installs a permanent geyser of unconditional love--
yes. well of course. that would play into your romantic vision of human...
[agrees but...] except for all the people who don't. everything is conditional. you just can't always anticipate the conditions.
quick! what's the kid's status? gotta get back to our sleeper before he goes looking for the orgasmatron.
see if that were rhetorical it would mean i could just turn around and leave now which i'm not doing. from which you should deduce...
vegetative state diet. who gave you your clothes?
don't worry about it. we use recyclable clothes now. wear them once then eat them. your son's measles vaccination d'you remember if he had it and what type it was?
yeah.
c'mon where you gonna go? house burned down your wife's dead. business is sold off. the only thing you have left is down the hall heading for a liver biopsy.
you have one day to live and you want a sandwich.
state provides it. who's providing for you? you got a car? money?
take out another hundred for me. and i need your car.
you'll get it back tomorrow. two days max. road trip.
sure!
how 'bout this? cops stop us we lie. you know how to do that. chips!
all the drugs pumping through his system right now his reflexes are better than dale earnhardt jr.'s.
[v.o.] so let's talk about toxic exposure.
[limping up.] raspberry cocaine. this house that burned down. where was it?
you didn't mention that.
no. so where else did you live? list everywhere including vacations. start with when your wife got pregnant.
[nodding.] yes.
well you're out of luck 'cause that's totally why i'm here.
[purses his lips.] person with the money makes the rules. or in this case person who's friend's the person with the money makes the rules.
why would you care about anything i have to say?
no you're not.
noooo! this is no time for you to do your thing! we don't care about his state of mind we don't care if he's happy. [to gabe.] this factory of yours. what did you make?
so ask me a question.
[to wilson holding up a bottle of vicodin.] only six left by the way.
wilson lied to the bulls to keep me out of the big house.
who's he gonna tell? by tomorrow night he's gonna be a mindless stalk of celery. since i answered that one by the way my turn. what did you make in your factory?
wow! going right for the closets with the embarrassing stuff. good move. [his answer.] yes! describe the boats.
she shot me. these boats - i assume you use mildew-resistant paint on the hulls?
paintball. doctors versus lawyers. ever take your son to the factory?
[shaking his head.] no more questions. i got my answer. while dad's in the office son's watching 'em spray-paint. and what kid wears a mask?
mercury specifically targets the central nervous system.
mercury poisoning explains the seizures. the liver's like a big soup-strainer. soup drains through chicken dumplings stay. for soup read blood for chicken dumplings...
sits more or less idle until your kid pours tequila shooters into his liver. when the liver goes takes out his kidneys - explains everything.
[into the phone.] yeah it's me.
[from phone.] foreman draw blood test for mercury poisoning. chase start heavy-metal chelation while we're waiting for results.
where is he?
[v.o.] we have been up and down st. james like a monopoly car. it's not here. giancarlo has left the building.
deep inside wilson believes if he cares enough he'll never have to die.
[scoffs.] and you would know normal.
maybe your son takes after your side; seizures and an allergy to emotional connections.
[hannibal greg.] quid pro quo clarice. [regular greg.] game's still on.
last ten years. how much awareness did you have?
oh my god you're right! i'm an addict. thanks for opening my eyes.
this is easy. you ask the questions answer them and make tasty snacks. [gets up.] let's go try the casino.
[to gabe.] sorry. if i'd known he was gonna be this annoying i'd have stolen dr. cameron's pad and dr. foreman's car. she appreciates my brooding melancholy.
[whiny-voice.] house's house of whining. state your complaint.
do an echo. mercury isn't likely to damage the...
[grimly.] do an echo.
i was wrong. your son's still dying. i need to go over every relative you ever had again. this time forget their diseases just tell me how they died. we don't have time to take turns.
give me the answers you get a big one at the end. go for whatever you want. destroy my privacy my dignity.
your grandmother?
your sister-in-law with diabetes. as far as you know she's still alive?
your father?
your wife's father?
that's the big question? i give you complete license to humiliate me and that's the best you can do. well okay. let's discuss the wonder of the human body.
oedipal fixation. i was seeking my mother's love and she thought that ben casey was just the dreamiest.
when i was fourteen my father was stationed in japan. i went rock-climbing with this kid from school. he fell got injured and i had to bring him to the hospital. we came in through the wrong entrance passed this guy in the hall. it was a janitor. friend came down with an infection and doctors didn't know what to do. so they brought in the janitor. he was a doctor and a buraku; one of japan's untouchables. his ancestors had been slaughterers gravediggers. and this guy knew that he wasn't accepted by the staff didn't even try didn't dress well he didn't pretend to be one of them. the people around that place they didn't think that he had anything they wanted except when they needed him. because he was right; which meant that nothing else mattered they had to listen to him.
what happened on the night of the fire?
yeah sure it's a stressful emotional question. suck it up!
how did your son dislodge the tinder?
and the hit-and-run walking the pissy dog. that happen at night?
car accident after the phillies lost. night game?
ragged red fiber. it's an inherited condition. dropping things muscle weakness poor night-vision. these people seem uncoordinated and accident-prone. careless. it's transmitted in mitochondrial dna so it only passes through the mother. your wife's family weren't drunks they were sick.
the kid is a drunk. thinks that he killed his mother and turned his father into a vegetable. i might have a few shots myself.
test his dna for ragged red fiber.
here's a thought. why don't we not assume that the test is negative 'til we actually do it.
yeah. 's not like he's gonna do anything with it.
we have arranged transplants before when a patient is near death.
fine. i'll think of something else.
wilson get out.
you've lied to the cops enough for me. maybe i don't wanna push this 'til it breaks.
pills are the simplest. hanging has less chance of damaging the heart.
strangulation's better than breaking your neck. which means this'll be slow.
[small shake of his head.] no.
i don't think so. 'cause you've just asked me that thing about the speed limit.
what do you wanna know?
i wouldn't help you.
i'd want him to say you were right. you did the right thing.
i figured.
[expressionless nod.] lucky.
well you got a heart out of it. how many organs do want from the guy?
[beat.] he said you were right. you did the right thing.
how should i know? he's your dad.
you know what i found interesting about this case?
the hoagie.
you thought this guy was emotionally confused and the hoagie was just a mask to hide his real feelings towards his son.
yeah. yet you moved heaven and earth to get him that mask with mustard and proscuitto.
all of them. which means that none of them said anything that i have to worry about. now back to the hoagie. you think that my addiction's out of hand? your need to be needed is so strong that you give people what they want what they need what they think they need.
[trying to be supportive.] they can't keep your money forever.
[looking at the file loudly] party of five! powerful stuff. the oc of its day. stress explains everything except the itchy feet.
hmm. good idea. ignore the symptoms. makes your job easy.
sure. heart problems gotta be the brain. thank god there's a neurologist in the room.
nope! [slaps the envelope down on the table]
i've said too much already.
no it's not. but it could be.
[still writing] nothing.
[finishes writing sits back upright] how are you gonna learn to swim unless i take off your floaties and throw you into shark-infested waters?
apparently you can't. now what's a game without rules? uhh no tagbacks no biting you get one test each and the clock runs until lunch.
if i'm right he'll still be alive. if i'm wrong it's a very cruel game.
[juts his head towards will] can i be your imaginary friend?
[to jack] how're the feet? they still itch?
i don't know. [to chase] is it?
what kinda drugs you into?
clever. admit the past. deny the present.
but confiding it in eight-year-olds is okay.
shyeah! turning the other cheek's a good strategy in boxing. kids don't lie because they have trust issues. they lie because they have something to hide. [looking down at will] look at him. sitting there doing nothing. he's still lying.
spelling test you failed or forgot to...?
math test?
fight with the kid sitting next to you?
the other one's probably having sex.
yet. but when you start you're gonna lie about it.
colder.
[into mic] how much dope did you smoke?
never said it was. [into mic] what about cigarettes? how'd you quit? gum? patch? hypnosis?
[to foreman] he went from two packs to nothing. cold turkey.
or we could just make small talk. you still seeing that nurse in paeds? i just don't think she's right for you. you need someone detached calculating ambitious. you need yourself in a skirt.
hmm. interesting. sounds like one of those symptom thingies.
never said it was.
[exaggerated shivering] brrr! ice-cold.
yeah. [to cameron] why did that other doctor look at his brain?
so because you think a spasm causes heart attacks you're gonna induce another spasm? [to jack] did you consent to this?
your meds don't seem to be doing anything. so either you're wrong... or his system hasn't been pushed enough to set anything off.
heart rate's up. nothing else.
still no spasm.
[mock-scolding] can't you see his heart is fine?! stop torturing him! what kind of doctor are you?
why so sad? still a chance that chase got it right.
ohh! that was suspenseful for about two seconds.
blood culture was negative for bacteria.
[stroking his stubble] hmm! i wonder who could've ordered that extra test? must be somebody who knew what persistent vomiting sudden distaste for nicotine and itchy feet have in common.
no but as chase so deftly pointed out earlier puking does. and hep-a explains the puking. if this had been real-life instead of just games...
but who's gonna prescribe my vicodin?
relax. tritter's just getting desperate. he's got no real evidence. he's trying to squeeze you into ratting.
they'll be fine. also your cancer medicine sucks anyway.
[looking at the envelope in his hand] suddenly this doesn't seem nearly as dramatic.
go pump ivig into the kid. cure him and get him out of here.
so we cured the hep-a something else pops up. interesting.
what infections cause dic?
rubbing his shoulder] hurt my shoulder playing fantasy football.
should we discuss what causes dic or should we just send the kid back to his miserable life?
right. he's thrilled that his parents are dead and his life is over.
take cameron. [to her] your idea was dumb anyway.
chase i need you to head back to that cesspool and get me the kid's puke. [rubs his shoulder] foreman do an lp and have cameron run down that potty-party theory.
[shiftily] let's not discuss this in front of the help.
the amount of vomiting that kid did would be enough toxins left in his system to show up in his blood. since he vomited in the toilet here instead of on somebody that restaurant's our only source of essential vomit.
no. i couldn't say this in front of foreman. [pulls out his near-empty vicodin bottle] i need a refill.
exactly. you stop now it'll look suspicious.
write the scrip.
one prescription isn't gonna...
you broke his rib?
which means... [a slight cracking sound is heard] oww!
fix it! osteomyelitis. means the infection's spread to his bones. which means it's either bacterial or viral and not... [grimaces and yells] oww! [to the nurse] i hired you to take away the pain. is there some confusion?
yeah that's the issue. friday night my cane suddenly noticed it was on the wrong side.
[to foreman] can you score me some vicodin?
how long till the cultures...?
why do you only do that when i'm talking.
[salaciously] if i know what you mean. [exaggerated wink] chase you can stop doing that.
[looking back up] or this kid is a lot sicker than we thought. [to chase] finish that test. should be impossible to get two right answers to one question.
sooo... we knock down one infection and three more pop up.
i think this game is rigged.
he's gotta be immuno-compromised.
well if he's not immuno-compromised why is he acting like he's immuno-compromised? what do the seizures
what do unexplained seizures and really sick eighteen-year-olds have in common?
[lifting his head up clutching his shoulder] i'm thinking drugs. [gets up] he's an admitted user. drugs crashed his immune system.
[putting on his suit] clean tox screen means there's no drugs in his blood or urine. there could still be drugs trapped in his fat cells from the good old days.
a keen observer would notice that he's had some digestive issues lately.
his weight loss could've burned off fat cells and released the drugs back into his system.
but it's not impossible to make him lose more weight.
that'd be cruel. just sweat it out of him.
look at you. couldn't have sent cameron down here to this air-conditioned hallway to deliver the bad news?
so he just happened to have a seizure at the exact time that we stuck him in a sauna.
[dramatic] oh my god! why're you using that?
no that's... [shakes his head] that's gonna make your shoulder hurt. you need one of these.
is he still infection-free? [chucks away the sling]
my point being did something other than those infections cause those seizures? means there's something in his head. scan him.
well that was then. this is not then. kid keeps changing. scan him again. where is cameron?
i've only got two pills left.
you're prescribing for wilson. wilson prescribes for me. write up the scrip.
yeah it's got a badge and everything.
[exasperated] fine! you're right! what's the correct amount? write up a scrip for the correct amount.
no answer? that's 'cause we're having the wrong debate. [picks up her sweaty scrubs and hands them to her] this has got nothing to do with my problem and everything to do with you avoiding the problem. you're afraid that if you write me a prescription you're gonna wind up like wilson.
tritter wants to win by giving pain. do you really wanna be a part of that? as a doctor how do you do that?
moaning?
wow whattaguy! theories?
he's teaching prepubescent kids that truth matters god doesn't and life sucks. i like him. treatment?
it'll destroy whatever's left of his immune system.
you wanna think that he's sacrificing himself because if one person could do it then maybe the world isn't a cold selfish place you know that it is.
radiation could kill him. alternatives?
we could choose to say they aren't tumours. they're just pus. which would explain why they weren't there yesterday.
exactly. creates a perfect world for fungus.
moves in gets married has little fungi.
not a big sacrifice. his life sucks. so let's be right. go stick a needle in the kid's head. you suck out a liquid then i'm right and we haven't answered anything. you suck out a solid you're right. no more worrying about playdates.
okay fine! i'll father your child.
first you gotta write me a vicodin prescription. just so i can get through the foreplay.
[pretends to think] uhh i could probably get through maybe... [tilts his head to the right] next minute or so.
[nods] yes. their cowardice is inspiring.
[sighs] i hate writing thank you notes. would it be weird if i asked cameron to write them?
[can't believe it] you're hooking me up?
[overjoyed] i knew that cleavage was a smokescreen. you're a genius.
[state-the-obvious contest] you can't pee standing up. gimme.
yeah been training for pants-off dance-off. gimme the scrip.
[exasperated] well we'll find out if you ever give me the...
yeah! just not about me.
i was right right?
[sighs] our kid's immune-system has a factory defect. it's genetic.
not if he grew up in a bubble.
i don't mean a literal bubble. a sweet suburban bubble where the mommies and daddies protect their children. they die bubble bursts. continuing emotional trauma triggers a genetic illness. question is: which one? [hangs his cane on the whiteboard] the infections he's contracted narrowed down the possibilities. [writes on whiteboard] hep-a indicates a problem with his b-cells.
[writes] eikenella.
[turning to his whiteboard] not now!
you'll stay.
patient's dying.
not in the next hour.
what does the syphilis tell us?
[turning to her loudly] what does it tell us?!
why don't we turn it into a race?
not you guys the infections.
the infections we're gonna give him.
each of the possible four genetic conditions is most susceptible to different types of infections.
this is a cocktail of serratia meningococcis cepacia and rhinovirus. whichever germ gains the most ground plants the flag with its leader gives us our answer.
now that's the fun part. see if the meningococcis is king of the hill you get to have another seizure. serratia will shut down your lungs. if it's cepacia you'll have a heart attack. if it's the rhinovirus... you'll sneeze. [shrugs] can't all be dramatic. we good?
only alternative is we guess. and there's a three-out-of-four chance that your little brother and sister will get to cry over another coffin.
study fractions in school? [repeating] we good?
[conspiratorially] oh and this... test isn't exactly fda-approved. so just keep it our little secret. okay?
[mouth-full] were they seen?
he couldn't find a baby-sitter. on account of not being able to make any phone calls on account of not being able to breathe on account of his lungs filling up with serratia. he has chronic granulomatosis disease. game over. my work is done.
bone marrow transplant would reboot his whole immune-system. he'll be healthy enough to win miserable-daddy-of-the-year.
my kids are already testing his kids.
moronic.
it's a synonym.
_has_ to protect his brother. doesn't want to. wants to run screaming from protecting his brother.
okay. [pulls his suit off his chair and grabs his cane] let's get some evidence.
it's your lucky day! i just found another donor in the registry. perfect match. we can do the transplant no danger to the rugrat. [puts the red file in front of him] just have to sign here.
unless there's another reason you don't want it.
[shrugs] chance you'd be cured. maybe you don't want that either. maybe hanging out in a hospital getting waited on hand and foot reminds you what life used to be like before you were forced to play mr. mom.
but you don't like being healthy either.
this is your way out. guilt-free.
when he's able to take care of himself without you.
[quietly] good for you.
[as he passes foreman whispering] don't pretend you're so surprised.
wanna go throw stuff on people off the balcony?
c'mon. mail can wait.
[cynically] oh good! i was afraid you would overreact.
kept you waiting for maybe an hour.
anybody die?
well cameron's available now. use her all you want.
[rubbing his shoulder] oh poor you. think if you suffer loudly enough...
what do you want me to do? turn myself in?
[upset] i don't need help!
you're not gonna make _me_ feel guilty about what tritter is doing... to us. [gets up to leave]
[holding it up] this baby won me second place in the clinic's weekly weirdest thing pulled out an orifice contest.
you do not wanna know what came in first.
rhymes with fucchini.
[with a quizzical look] where's my prescription?
a cop says boo wilson shuts down.
you think maybe you're shouting at the wrong person? tritter's obviously out to get me. he doesn't care...
allegedly.
but i hurt in an unreasonable way.
tritter took it.
i ran out.
'scuse me!
it's never lupus. [glancing at the cts] who's got gallstones so why do we care?
the biliary duct is dilated. probably from a stone lodged in it. musta caused a nasty case of pancreatitis.
so... she didn't have pancreatitis?
my theory is... vanishing gallstone.
she had it and it passed. those things travel in packs. most of them probably hiding out in her gallbladder. do an ultrasound. if i'm right take out the organ so we can analyse the stones.
sorry didn't know you wanted your kid dead. although for a couple of g's i can still make it happen.
i am a complete stranger who apparently cares more about whether your kid dies than you do.
you've seen my stage show.
or a moron for a mom. what can you do?
[pointing to the parents] 's people like this who killed copernicus.
either way.
they killed his spirit. and nobody likes a showoff.
luckily alice hartman has a dad who's willing to see reason.
their doctor.
there's no time.
[singsong] no time!
am i under oath?
[glancing at cuddy] my testimony is that this child might die if you don't grant this motion right now.
won't be as good as the first opinion.
she's not a specialist in this area. her opinion is worthless.
simple surgical procedure turns a little girl into the english patient. what gives?
this is my office i'm talking there are people here who work for me but not listening. explain this to me.
call wilson's lawyer. he'll tell you exactly how and why you're screwed. this kid has no history of allergies.
here's the plan - we do nothing. we while away the time diagnosing the patient. stones were calcium bilirubin and pigment stones.
kid presented with low-grade fever mild anaemia. that plus the stones indicates bacterial infection.
we cut into her belly bad boys escape. they swarm over colonize the wounds and- kaplow!- vesicular rash.
do a scratch test check for allergies. when it comes back negative start broad-spectrum antibiotics.
bullies bully. they don't get a reaction they lose interest. [menacingly] now go do what i ask before i stick your heads into toilets.
[engrossed in his game] what're you doing here?
you passively-aggressively gave up your practice.
now you're passively-aggressively spreading peanut butter. big sign around your neck saying wilson does not have enough cash for the cafeteria.
oyyyyeeesh. you're gonna confront me with everyone who's ever used narcotics. damn i have to get something to read.
i get it i get it i need to change my nightclub act. need more props.
she can't be. has to be an infection.
bacteria got into the scratches in her back.
[picking up the half pb&j sandwich] eat this.
make you better.
magic sandwich.
[snaps] just take a damn bite okay kid?
amazing how she didn't go into anaphylactic shock.
right! she's allergic to everything except peanuts.
if she's allergic. but she's not.
[ordering] chase! hang the bag! and grow a backbone tomorrow.
[angry] you know what else shuts down systems? death!
luckily alice hartman has a mom who is willing to see reason.
i honestly figured i'd get a different judge today.
[side of his mouth to cuddy] this lawyering thing is easy.
three o'clock! gimme the pills!
[irritably] fine! i'll choose. always side with the angry doctor's opinion. gimme my pills.
there is no chance...
i'm appealing.
not gonna be enough. need to go broad-spectrum...
on the plus side she could medal at luge.
[mocking cuddy] metronidazole - great idea.
let's not go broad-spectrum. let's not take any chances at actually curing her.
[loud] no! 'cause i'm in pain! 'cause you think that compromise's the answer to everything! i need more pills!
[at the top of his voice] i need more pills!!
what the hell does reasonable mean?
you think that i'm not in pain. then don't give me anything. keep me away from the aspirin. if i'm in a buttload of pain i need a buttload of pills!
[still irritable] which one of you two gave her an aspirin?
her symptoms fit reye's syndrome. which doesn't make any sense unless you took aspirin.
she's lying. she's angry. 'cause you kidnapped her kid. she'll be angrier if the kid dies.
one aspirin! combined with the preexisting infections is all it takes to set off an atta...
well sure. you certainly earned her trust. [to edie] where was alice the night she came in?
she a fifteen-year-old pharmacist? or is it just some kid from down the street who needed twenty bucks for lip gloss and couple of tiger beats?
put your kid on charcoal hemoperfusion.
i know what she's gonna say. she's gonna lie to save her business. [flapping his palm out at her] gimme more pills.
bad mojo is not a diagnosis.
[irritated] you find it easier to lie for me if it's more subtle? fine!
[in pain restrained] or we never cured the infection.
[angry] i don't need you to cover my ass! what i need is my vicodin! [grumbling] two pills every six hours. like i'm on an allowance. she's given the cop leverage over medical decisions! what the hell why don't we get a plumber in here ask his opinion! hey cuddy you know any rodeo clowns who can weigh in...!
where the hell is she?
[venomously] told you it was an infection.
[incensed] well apparently not! i asked you for broad-spectrum you put her on the bare minimum! it's a good thing you failed to become a mom 'cause you suck at it!!
what's good about this rash?
good guesses! but no.
it's on parts of her body that we haven't touched. she's got a fever of a hundred-and-three. she's in and out of consciousness. but it's not a reaction to anything we did. our mojo is off the table. which means...?
oh! so close. means thanks to cuddy's candy-ass approach broad-spectrum antibiotics are no longer an option. this thing has grown horns and fangs. we gotta figure out what species it is. go in with a spear to the heart.
[sighs] okay you guys are sulking. i don't really care why but apparently i can't do my job without finding out.
horrible horrible news. wow! i'm glad we didn't let that fester. if she did have reye's then it could be varicella or associated...
[irritably] the correct question is how can it be varicella given that she's not itchy?.
maybe he just gave up. start the kid on chloramphenicol for rocky mountain spotted fever.
nope.
either you screwed me and you want absolution or you didn't and you want applause. either way not interested.
what dose did you give her?
[hurting bad] okay the infection's morphed. it's moved into her muscle sheath.
the only treatment is to cut away the infected area. so we amputate.
it moves too quickly and we waited too long. we don't have time for a culture.
it spreads she dies.
[top of his voice pissed] right!! she's six! she's cute! she can't have flesh-eating bacteria! it's just wrong! let's cure her with sunshine and puppies! cute kids die of terrible illnesses! innocent doctors go to jail just because cowards like you won't stand up and do what's required! you can sit around and moan about who's the
i'm gonna go do my job.
one thing about life - it's got qualities.
[disinterested] oh good.
[couldn't care less] i know what it is. infection fits better.
liver's shot too. she swallow a flashlight?
[threatening] get the hell out of my way.
and a happy go to hell. [to wilson] what is he doing here? is he with you?
already got a lawyer get out of my office.
get out of my office.
right so i should get locked up in some place i don't belong in order to avoid getting locked up in some other place i don't belong.
um hmm and you get your car back and your bank accounts and your precious tumour-ridden patients.
next christmas buy me a sweater.
i was in pain! you need to believe that i've got a problem so that your betrayal has the illusion of nobility but you just selfishly-- [wilson is frozen in shock]
[still glaring at wilson] get out of my office. [tritter shakes his head and wilson looks disappointed]
you're not? [he holds up the cane threateningly]
those don't work. [he turns around to face wilson]
[points to one of the decorations in the lobby] look there's jesus go tell the romans. [he walks into the clinic]
[bursts in through the door. cuddy abigail and maddy (the mother) are startled] woah. sorry. just need her for a tiny moment. small favour. [cuddy gives him a look] pills.
incision looks just big enough for chest tube. collapsed lung? someone mistake you for a pinata?
no on trauma. [looks at her forearm to find a clear patch of skin where a circle has been marked out in black] negative ppd. what flavour dwarfs are you guys?
yes but i don't want to be insensitive. [turns to cuddy and indicates at maddy] she's got a bit of a short fuse hasn't she?
bleb's not a diagnosis it's an evasion.
let me translate that into tolkien for you guys - means doctor cuddy's got no idea why your daughter's lung suddenly popped like a balloon.
give me her chart and my pills.
santa needs us. [he throws the chart at chase who looks up and we see a dark bruise on his jaw where house punched him] did you get that looked at?
great. i just admitted a cartilage hair hypoplasia dwarf 15-yrs-old--
i thought i'd get your theories mock them then embrace my own. the usual.
your choice of verb i take it?
unexplained lung collapse and anaemia. cuddy thinks it's idiopathic - cuddy and idiop being the relevant parts of that sentence.
then you'd be just as big an idiop as her. don't you people know your dwarfs?
the sick dwarfs sure expect you to.
gold star for cameron for extra credit explain to the special needs section of the class why our patient's negative tb test is irrelevant.
the little people love you. [gets up] let's go see a dwarf about a gallium scan.
you don't look a day over 4 feet. i saw in the file that her dad was normal size.
compared to you i'm sure he was huge. did he have a fetish or did he just fall in love with your long-legged soul?
certainly curious about the logistics. did you stand on a table?
she also hates jews.
care to go for a spin?
there are no bright spots because the whole thing is too bright. except for the liver.
doesn't explain the liver problem though.
did you guys look at the liver on this thing?
seriously look at the liver.
why not?
every organ in the scan is lit up like a hundred watt bulb except for her liver which is hovering around 60 watts. and not one of them good 60 watt-ers but an energy-saving--
lung cancer is a lame diagnosis. avoiding wilson is an added bonus.
not taking the deal. glad we talked. ultrasound her liver. [the ducklings make to take off]
stand up. [looks to cuddy] your turn.
well i'm obviously not going to take the deal just so i can have the fun of treating a dwarf so i assume there's more to this threat.
that could work.
this is not lung cancer.
you're going to come begging me to save this girl long before i come begging you for pills.
in this drawer it's a rescue mission. i got it under control you can leave. [he goes back to jimmying the drawer]
i'm off the clock.
obviously.
hmm... medical mystery. sounds like the kind of thing i'd be good at. [he gets frustrated at being unable to jimmy the drawer] breaking and entering sounds like the kind of thing you'd be good at.
one theory one drawer.
really? i thought you'd be all for this torture house plan. it works therefore it's good. on the other hand i don't want to talk you out of this deal by pointing out your hypocrisy so... patient's life at stake blah blah blah blah. [foreman jimmies the drawer while still warily looking out at the clinic] forget about the specific nature of the liver dysfunction it's irrelevant. dwarf's problem is global that's why the gallium scan was bright it's going to spread throughout her entire body unless you stop it.
it will be. it'll spread through the biliary tree and hit her pancreas next. stop retracing your steps get ahead of it. forget the liver and focus on the pancreas 'coz after that... actually after that it doesn't really matter what it is because all roads lead to a dead dwarf.
only an idiot stands between ahab and his whale. move. [he opens the drawer and quickly searches but doesn't find any vicodin.]
ow. there's no bruise or nothing but it really hurts.
wow sounds bad.
princeton-plainsborough. [he reaches inside his jacket to get a piece of paper] here's my discharge slip.
i err... i tried that it makes me nauseous.
great i haven't slept in days.
oh. is there something else you could give me?
thanks so much.
how can a clinic have a rule against relieving pain?
you think i'm a drug-seeker?
well then give me the vicodin.
because you think i'm a drug-seeker?
no you said that the policy was to stop drug-seeking. then you said i'm not a drug-seeker policy doesn't apply.
gabapentin works on nerve damage; you're prescribing it for a broken face! might as well hand out band aids for a severed carotid!
not by this clinic's definition since i'm neither a moron nor a mindless drone! [the doctor quickly picks up a phone and starts dialling]
forget it i'll throw myself out.
told you you'd come begging me for help. [his voice is very rough and husky]
give me my pills or lose an arm.
so give me my pills.
you'd rather kill this girl than give me my pills?
well have fun explaining that to her itsy bitsy grieving mother. [he slams the door at cuddy]
[he says through the door without opening it] unless you've got vicodin go away.
no pills no eggnog.
cut myself. [his left forearm is wrapped thickly in a bandage and one side is obviously still bleeding under it cameron walks right in and house shuts the door behind her]
cuddy send you?
she right?
cutting releases endorphins endorphins relieve pain. can you get me some pills?
well then you can leave.
soon as the kid gets cured cuddy's got no pressure to fold.
autoimmune fits better than cancer but lupus floods kidneys usually attacks them first. kidneys are fine right?
yeah only it had something to do with the absence of pain. [she's about to put a bandage on] no leave that i want to be able to pour alcohol on it so i can distract myself.
kid been sick lately?
you see abigail's immune system is like a shy guy in a bar. the ear infections - they come in they try to coax him to... [he sighs in frustration] to hell with the metaphor. you get the point right?
factor in her age elevated sed rate anaemia... it's still's disease. start her on prednisone methotrexates cyclosporin.
your plan isn't working. two days down one to go. figured i'd show you how much it isn't working.
we both know that my pride far surpasses my instinct for self-preservation. you want to redeem yourself give up now.
i've done nothing wrong.
which makes this your last chance to do me a kindness before ruining my life forever. [wilson ignores him and is about to take off when house stops him no longer teasing but talking in earnest] nausea's bad this time. you write me a script for metoclopramide so i can stop puking. they'd give me that in rehab.
well look on the bright side; at least you don't have to go by mrs. zebalusky anymore. that's gotta be a relief.
you hear my diagnosis on the dwarf? still's disease. did you ever consider those ear infections or you just wrote it off as a dwarf thing? you sure he's dead because doctor wilson sometimes misses things.
right i'm pathetic. i'm strung out i haven't slept puking every hour and i still out-diagnosed you. but i'm supposed to let you decide what's best--
[subsides] sorry. i'm done. [he starts to leave but is halted before reaching the door]
picking up a script for zebalusky.
yeah wilson's busy right now what with mr zebalusky dying in agony on account of his metastatic lung cancer and not having the pills to relieve that agony because of some moron pharmacist.
get your own.
what's wrong with you?
[sighs] at least it's not contagious. [he sets the plate of chips in front of the little girl] nice bear.
[looks at cuddy then back at the little girl] it's a bear.
words have set meanings for a reason you see an animal like bill and you try to play fetch bill's going to eat you because bill's a bear.
see that's what we call a faulty syllogism. just because you call bill a dog doesn't mean that he is... [house has a light bulb moment]... a dog. [he looks up at cuddy] we've got to x-ray our patient's leg.
weird huh?
willpower. [he pops a pill]
normal's not normal if you're not normal.
no. [wilson looks at cuddy cuddy looks annoyed] so how does a dwarf have completely normal growth plates?
not nearly as many as i'm gonna take. forgotten how delicious they were.
can we forget my vices and get back to my virtues? we were missing the fact that just because we called her a dwarf doesn't mean she is a dwarf. everyone assumed she was because of her mother and there's no test for chh dwarfism so she lost an identity but we've gained a symptom.
oh you guys and your bickering. cancer versus autoimmune.
nope i think it's both. langerhans cell histiocytosis - also known as you've got your cancer in my autoimmune disease. the immune component responded to the still's treatment led to the short-term improvement the cancer portion didn't.
yeah... it's not your fault the only neurological symptom was her height. who could have noticed?
this is your pituitary gland and this is the granuloma that's been crushing it. no pituitary equals no growth hormone equals... about that much. [he gestures with his hands to indicate shortened growth]
just hormonally challenged.
your mom's the real deal. you're just a tiny little poser. the recent ear infections caused your body to release a cascade of these same cells that made the granuloma attacked your lungs moved on to your liver then hitched a ride over to your pancreas. we can nuke them with a mild course of chemo then remove the granuloma.
let me see if i can make this clear. [he picks up his bottle of oxycodone and takes out a pill] this pill represents... a pill. and my mouth represents your daughter's mouth. [he kneels down without even a twinge of pain - he's obviously in no pain at all not to mention probably high from taking so many oxy in succession to each other] we deposit the pill in the mouth. [he takes the oxy and then stands up] you may never be tall enough to play in the wnba but you should be able to post up your mom no problem.
your body needs growth hormone for lots of things like... to grow.
nobody your age likes who they are now.
you like needing help when you want something off the high shelf? not being able to press an elevator button above the eighth floor having to smell ass every time you stand in line? [maddy draws herself up obviously insulted] you don't need growth hormone; it's just your ticket out of the freak show. [house takes the scan and walks out of the room maddy follows after him outside into the corridors]
i'm trying to help her.
not too tall. just tall enough to wipe her own butt. [he chuckles at his own joke. maddy isn't amused]
higher than you.
then you're a lousy mom. you want your daughter to be a freak.
[sighs] you want her to overcome adversity.
then why stop at height? poke a stick in her eye imagine how interesting she'll be then.
you and i have found that being normal sucks because we're freaks. advantage of being a freak is that it makes you stronger. how strong do you really want her to have to be? tell her what you have to tell her now you tell her you lied even if you didn't.
who's abigail?
oh good. then the growth hormone makes sense. [he stands up and starts picking up stuff.]
yeah i know. deal expires tomorrow.
you worried i'm going to be popping more pills? [he puts on his coat]
hey mom i guess you guys are already up at aunt sarah's. i'm sure dad's in the eggnog and you're probably suffering through another dried out turkey. [long silence] just wanted to say merry christmas. [he puts down the phone and pops another oxy chasing it down with more whiskey an explosive combination]
i'm ready to take the deal.
the clock doesn't expire until--
not guilty.
not guilty.
i was just going to ask him where he gets his haircut.
running into smoke filled burning buildings can be a bit disorienting. fortunately i have the cure stop doing it.
so could er nurses who were too busy to notice that a patient likes both hot coffee and cold sodas [gets up to walk towards his office cameron stands in front of him]
in case you hadn't noticed not exactly in the mood to dance.
ekg showed arrhythmia probably just a mild heart attack.
works for me draw blood cultures start him on antibiotics vancomycin plus broad gram-negative coverage.
if you called to see the design for my prison tatts they're still at r and d.
not according to my lawyer.
yeah you know what else tritter can do?
i'm not the one who--
i accepted the deal!
allegedly.
cuddy. wanna know what i gave her?
[walking into his office] so maybe it's menopause.
male menopause high oestrogen low testosterone explains temperature swings disorientation endocrinologically similar to female menopause but without the vaginas and mah-jong tiles. [walking out of his office again after grabbing his coat]
blue vision isn't a symptom it's a side effect of viagra it's right there on the label which i have no reason to have read except that i'm a doctor but then...
you mean he didn't tell you he was taking viagra and i don't care how sick he is trust me he still thinks he's got a shot. menopause causes temperature swings limpness limpness causes pills pills cause the blueness.
aging's not the only cause you said he's got burns to 54% of his body sure it's not 55%?
which could in turn cause...
[going into the elevator] run a hormone panel comes back positive pump him full of testosterone and send him home. and stop following me. [elevator closes]
[cuts him off] i'm sorry... you could throw a dart at all the adjectives between arrogant and unhinged and i'm sure you'd hit one that describes me. there's a reason i operate that way... i live in pain. pain that on good days is merely intolerable and on bad ones will suck the life-force right out of you. doesn't mean that i've handled this right actually means i was wrong.
i'm sorry! you can hook me up to a damn polygraph.
great have at it. [walks out]
no need you got it under control.
upstairs this time.
check myself into rehab. [elevator closes]
nope this is all me. so no slaps on the back? encouraging words...
i hope this is me detoxing otherwise i soiled a perfectly good pair of underwear last night for nothing.
absolutely it's a show for tritter and the judge unfortunately unless it's real there is no show. hey if it doesn't help my case at least i'll go to prison with heightened senses all the better to enjoy my strolls around the yard.
when i lead the big patient rebellion voldemort here is the first to go.
no need people in my life have no expectations of me makes all our lives easier.
[cuts him off] is admitting i have a problem i've obviously already done that or i wouldn't be here. i've even embraced step 2 i've admitted there's a higher power may not be a god per se...[therapist nods in acceptance] but that andre the giant guy was powerful. where i start to butt up against it is step 3 surrendering my will to this higher power. i'm sure andre's ghost has my back and all but my free will i never leave home without it.
[thinks about it] true.
pick a colour.
[sarcastically] you are a ray of sunshine on a cloudy day.
i'm fine by the way thanks for asking! whoever came up with buprenorphine to wean off vicodin should be shot. and then stabbed in the eye [yelling to voldemort who is standing just outside the room] i think someone needs to adjust my meds!
the cause of the heart attacks isn't internal it must be external something environmental.
still must be something in common.
that's the what's how bout the who's?
anyone else?
well then you should be worried about proving me wrong.
you're not my mom you don't have to keep checking up on me.
not bad considering i just learned that i'm completely powerless.
faulty logic. this big fancy wing exists because some people with money think that it works. they wanna believe that they can buy a better world. this is nothing short of idealised despair let people wallow in it.
none of this means anything. it's just nonsensical slogans and platitudes.
what do you think i've been doing?
right! i should have an affair with a dying patient and move into a hotel.
thanks i was running short on platitudes you can leave now. [takes a drag of his cigarette and blows it in wilson's face. wilson walks out shaking his head]
no i don't but now that you know the why what are you going to do to stop the how?
not if you're right. antidepressants would inhibit his autonomic nervous system which would only speed up the heart attacks.
thyroid effect would only weaken the heart.
this is not a fat guy with plaque-filled arteries and a swollen heart he's a guy who's brain is trying to kill his heart.
[epiphany] we need cuddy.
so you can tell her why you need to fry a guy's brain.
electroshock therapy is the only way to erase his memories of amy and stop the brain's chemical attack on the heart.
cameron. [house goes to the fridge]
[starts pouring himself a glass of milk] lmno ptu blood thinners none of them would solve this problem. he's got a real-life harlequin romance in his head were going to pull out the 1940s playbook. bilateral electrodes high stimulus sine wave intensity turning that dial all the way to 11. it's basic brain chemistry we interrupt protein synthesis altering the neurotransmitter system the result no memories no amy no problem. [takes a drink]
[to the ducklings] you heard the lady go plug him in [they leave cuddy goes to leave as well] am i really that pathetic? [cuddy stops and looks at him]
if i'd pitched electroshock therapy as a cure for broken heart syndrome any other time you'd have dug in and maybe tried another 100 useless things first. so either you're actually beginning to trust me or... you just feel sorry for me.
lower intestine with ulcerative colitis. [tritter smiles] you crash art therapy classes just for the adrenalin rush?
well don't tell anyone but the photos of smiling people in the brochures it's just marketing.
which you have no intention of doing.
so words mean nothing actions mean nothing what the hell is left?
[yelling from across the room] you son of a bitch! [tritter stops and turns around] what about your words your actions. [house gets up and starts walking over to tritter] gotta get house cleaned up get him to show some humility when it comes to actually doing something you prove that all you care about is bitch slapping a guy who refused to kiss your ass.
yeah yeah yeah i get it so you were screwed over by your mother your wife your partner but you keep sending them christmas cards while you take it out on everyone else.
good.
thanks.
thanks for the update. [house sees wilson walking in] my next condolence call is arriving i'll see you guys tomorrow
[reaches into the bag and pulls out a red tie] nice.
it's not that nice... i had no business blaming you for any of this. i know you were just trying to help me protect me that's what friends do.
part of the program if you don't like it i can stop.
[answering his phone] i told you never to call me when i'm on trial.
thanks your honour [points to the phone] hard to hear. [talking to the phone] you test for clotting time and lb function?
but it's not all getting there something's obstructing the blood flow.
it's lower down.
[to the phone] hang on a second. [to the judge] does your voice always get that high and annoying when you're angry?
no thank you. [to the phone] set him up for a selective vertebral angiography i'm on my way. [hangs up the phone gets up and starts to leave]
[still walking out] why? i'm bored there's nothing i can say or do that's going to make a difference here.
they said they wanted me there but i don't think they liked me. his voice isn't high because of the electrical charges; it's another symptom of menopause. [they walk into the or] his system keeps getting hit by women's issues so let's follow the pattern. what might obstruct the blood flow that's more common in women than men? [to chase] is the catheter in?
shut up and wire him.
[to cameron] centre the image in the interpeduncular cistern keep it moving at 30 frames per second.
the problem is not how wide the road is it's a guy with a squeegee on the sidewalk flagging cars. that's what's causing the slowdown we find him we find the problem.
go!
[points to screen] there! mr squeegee spinal meningioma pushing on the nerves to the vocal chords. creates the voice change and that nerve just happens to live right near the meningeal branch of the vertebral artery obstructs the blood flow to the brain brain malfunctions creating false memories memories cause love love kills. and we didn't completely screw up; cleaning the slate bought us time to find the real problem. on the other hand if we'd been better we wouldn't have needed the time. schedule him for surgery dig that thing out and he can start enjoying real misery instead of the fake stuff. [starts walking away]
detoxing i didn't know what i was saying.
excuse me [cameron lets him go] i have to go to jail. [leaves]
sorry didn't mean to interrupt.
i said i was sorry there's no need to be sarcastic. [he sits down velez shows cuddy a book]
so should i be looking for you in the shadows? flinch every time a car backfires?
so what do you say? how about a conjugal visit to celebrate?
you get these from the pharmacy or from voldemort?
no... he'd be risking his minimum wage job to do that.
[sighs] my higher power said it was ok.
nothing's changed.
[smirks] believe what you want.
goodnight wilson.
[cheerfully] how can i help you this beautiful morning?
[pretending to think] three. got a teenage african-american lung transplant... [starts to count with his fingers]
i just said...
then why'd you ask?
that's dishonest. in refuse to participate in this...
[over his shoulder] perjurer.
how can i help you this beautiful morning?
who is here for a runny nose?
it's a cold! it'll get better. go home!
those of you who have stayed obviously do not have colds.
you'll be assigned a doctor who is not me 'cause i'm tired of wiping crotches.
no i'm good thanks.
[calling] need a team here!
[taking the sedative] just in time.
paralytic.
somebody had to stop the screaming.
yeah! but quietly.
[to them] paralytic stopped him breathing. he goes hypoxic he's gonna be quiet forever.
so either i can continue to swab people's privates or i can figure out if this guy's delirium pain and insanely high heart-rate are life-threatening or just a personality quirk.
i think the latter choice is better for all three of us.
so pain in his right ear psychotic behaviour and dizziness. go!
because he was dizzy. means the problem was affecting his inner ear.
he wasn't running in circles. he was running in oblongs. looked like a three-year-old kid drew them.
'splains the pain vertigo everything. get an mri.
what else?
it might not explain everything.
excellent. need a complete psychiatric work-up.
[to cameron] your turn.
well say something else.
[patronizing] goood...
[seems impressed] hmm.
[almost imitating an orgasm] ohhh yes! get a head ct draw a blood culture run a chem panel and get a complete blood count.
oh while you're at it pour some alcohol into his ear and take out the cockroach.
[collecting his coat from his office] he was scratching that ear right before the event so i took a peek. my guess is it started biting.
wasn't that enough? pretty gross.
well it's either that or i have to keep doing clinic duty. do the tests or just stay out of cuddy's sight i don't really care which.
[shooing away the bug] because it's not a hospital.
watching jogging. i sit i watch i imagine.
[motioning] that guy's running in shorts.
[smiles in approval] you're good at this.
beauty of this place is that it's the last place cuddy will look.
how'd you know i was here?
[getting up] ran into?
wouldn't've been pointless if you didn't run into cameron.
breath mint. thought you were gonna kiss me.
i got out.
enough foreplay. you gonna kiss me or not?
[amused] you perjured yourself to keep me out of jail. how're you...?
so it's do clinic duty or go to jail.
then it'll be finish your paperwork or go to jail. help with fundraising or go to jail. do your job or go to jail. i think i'd rather go to jail.
bea-utiful.
who cares. it's beautiful.
if my lawn was half as well maintained as that pigeons wouldn't have the nerve to poop on it.
is that a shot?
[interrupting] you use toe-nail clippers up there?
i am wearing a rumpled shirt and i forgot to brush my hair this week. you've got athlete's foot in your nose.
[coolly] i'm ready to be judged.
okay! fifty dollars...!
...to any patient who's willing to leave here right now.
my money.
[handing over $50 to the dad] they leave fifty bucks. they're not all that sick. [looks at the people]
if they're that poor then they'd rather have fifty bucks.
look. it's monogrammed. he doesn't need money. ergo he's not sick.
[shrugging it off] could be anybody's. monogram's definitely his.
[melodramatically] doesn't matter what you say do or threaten. i will find a way out.
how can we make the sky green? how can we make the tall short? you cannot make the uninteresting interesting.
you're making this into a game for me. from which i can only conclude this isn't a game for you.
why? think if i deal with enough people i'll find some humanity?
i got a bum leg. say aah.
yes! it's a rash. can't get any more than rough.
well i could. but then what satisfaction would you get?
[checking his watch] start counting.
[two seconds later] how many?
okay. either you suck at math or you're gonna die in two seconds. [waits a couple of seconds mock-expectantly] you suck at math.
diagnosis! [slaps the file down picks up another] prescription! [to cuddy] you owe me thirty.
i owe you ten.
how old are you?
and you've never seen an after-school special? dawson's creek? how do you get to thirty and not know about condoms?
no. but you will. every patient who comes in here for an std test has one thing in common. they had sws. sex while stupid.
[fatigued] how old are you?
[looks up in disbelief] you're lying. that's not the point. you've never seen dawson's creek?
and you've never seen an after-school special? how do you get to your age and not know about condoms?
yeah! you're actually the first one today. lucky day. not for you but gotta feel good for everyone else.
it's chlamydia. as bad news goes 's about the best.
oh settle down. it's treatable. it's actually curable.
[no idea what to do] all you have to do is take these pills...
[quietly] oh god.
[seriously] i need someone to cover a patient.
she was raped. [beat] think i'm the right doctor for her?
why do you want me?
[shrugging] i don't wanna treat you.
true. 'cept for the word just. i'm saying i don't wanna treat you so you'll see the psychiatrist and because i don't wanna treat you.
i never wanted to treat you. fact that you were raped [beat sighs] holds no interest for me. it's nothing personal. there's nothing to treat. you're physically healthy.
[turns] why?
you gotta have a reason. everything has a reason.
ah see that's a bad reason. 'cause i'll lie to you. i'll tell you anything just to get you out of here.
[lowers his head moves towards her] look you were raped. all control was taken away from you. you're trying to find that control again. you want me because i don't want you.
in a very non-invasive more annoying than trauma...
i'll send in dr. stone.
it'll go away on it's own.
no it'll go away.
nope! it'll go away.
or... it won't go away. [starts to leave]
you don't have the hiccups do you?
[to the nurse] make a note. drug-seeking behaviour.
no! anal-digital stimulation.
how long has stone been in with her?
you know how many people get raped everyday?
we were to care for every person suffering on the planet life would shut down.
they deserve our sympathy more than the other people?
whoa whoa whoa! hey! whoa!
hey! [to the doctor] i paid these people fifty bucks to leave here an hour ago.
then you owe fifty.
[skeptically] and he could walk way back then. [to the son] stand up kid.
how old are you?
and he swallowed something stuck to a fridge? darwin says let him die.
it's already below the stomach. it should pass on its own.
it's well into the intestines. he's fine. [takes the scalpel and stands] i want my fifty back.
what happened?
[to dr. stone] what did you say to her?
what did she say to you?
you must have said something.
you gonna do that again?
you're gonna be okay... physically.
under orders.
'cause i don't like hypocrisy.
which brings us back to why do you want me?
tried to kill yourself 'cause you couldn't talk to me. must have a reason.
[getting annoyed] there's a phone. talk to a friend. family-member. call the police.
[sighs in defeat] you wanna talk about what happened to you?
[sitting on a stool] talk about your std meds?
you don't really seem to wanna talk.
'bout what?
the weather?
you were raped and you want to talk about the weather?
[getting up in exasperation] i'm not gonna talk to you about the weather.
[to cameron] you'll help her!
she doesn't know what she wants.
fact that i was in the wrong place at the wrong time should be trumped by the fact that i'm useless at this.
right. i'll tell her that everything went on without her. babies were born people got married. thousands of people will remember the day she got raped as the happiest day of their lives.
you gotta tell me what happened.
[undoing her binds] sure i do.
doesn't have to destroy your life.
doesn't mean anything about you. wasn't your fault.
you did nothing wrong. some jerk hurt you that's all.
you're worried that you can never trust men again.
statistically there was always a chance this could happen. the fact that it did happen doesn't change anything. world doesn't suck anymore today than it did yesterday.
[no idea what to say] then what do you want me to tell you?
about nothing.
we talk about nothing nothing will change.
how?
[trying to shrug it off] it's what people say. it's not true. doing things changes things. not doing things... leaves things exactly as they were.
where'd you go to college?
hopkins. what was your major?
[has had it] why do you trust me?
[loudly] that's not rational!
everything is rational!
[beat] we are selfish base animals crawling across the earth. but 'cause we got brains if we try real hard we can occasionally aspire to something that is less than pure evil.
[looks at her] what do you want me to say?
she's asleep. i sedated her.
[frustrated] because i don't know how to answer these questions.
she doesn't wanna hear the truth. she's looking for something. looking to extrapolate something...
there is no truth.
she's not asking for test results. she's not asking what two plus two equals. she's asking for my personal life experience so she can extrapolate the law of humanity. that's not truth that's bad science.
it hasn't been.
it didn't.
thanks you've all been a huge help.
wrong. we just don't know what the right answer is.
wake up.
's not bad as what happened to you i don't think. i don't know what happened to you. and given how lousy you're responding i assumed it was worse than getting abused by your grandmother.
parents travelled a lot leaving me with her. she liked things the way she liked them. she believed in discipline. she was right i suppose. i hardly ever screwed up when she was around. too scared of... being forced to sleep in the yard or take a bath in ice. [beat] your turn.
[sitting on a chair] never told them.
usual reasons. i was afraid they wouldn't believe me and i was afraid they'd think i' done something wrong. [beat] i opened up to you you open up to me.
oma.
dutch for grandmother. she's still my grandmother. and she was still dutch.
all of it.
you don't know me.
look you're overreacting.
not dismissing you. saying you're not acting rationally.
[getting angry himself] no. you're...
[softly] nothing.
[sighs] true for somebody.
[getting up] these things happen. happened to somebody. what do you care if it happened to me?
[loudly] no! they're out there! doctors lawyers... postal workers! some of them doing great some of them doing lousy! you're gonna base your whole life on who you got stuck in a room with?
you gotta get me out of this. there's nothing to diagnose. there's nothing...
i had seven morons who forgot their raincoats. 's all they asked for so i didn't waste the lab's time. why?
you understand? [beat] you okay? i know you're not okay. are you more or less not okay than you were five minutes ago.
termination procedure is unpleasant.
you wanna keep the baby?
true. [nods] it's a life. and you should end it.
[looks to the heavens in exasperation] talk to me don't quote me bumper stickers.
it's meaningless.
not to me not to you. [getting up to pace around] judging by the number of natural disasters not to god either.
yeah! i do do that. what about hitler? is his life sacred to god? father of your child? is his life sacred to you?
either every life is sacred or...
you're not killing your rape baby because of a philosophy.
not as a general rule.
yes! [beat] the problem with exceptions to rules is the line drawn. might makes sense for us to kill the ass that did this to you. but where do we draw the line? which asses do we get to kill? which asses get to keep on being asses? nice thing about the abortion debate is we can quibble over trimesters but ultimately there's an ice-cold line - birth. morally there isn't a lot of difference. practically huge.
[cracks a smile] this is the type of conversation i do well.
there are no answers.if there are no answers why talk about it?
you're healthy. you shouldn't be here.
[beat] fine. i won't discharge you. [thinks] wanna go for a walk?
life goes on.
know why i come here? i sit i watch i imagine.
[pointing to joggers] imagine if one of them would break a leg.
just one false step. one crack in the sidewalk.
i'm evil.
sounds like an easy loophole. [beat] people can do good things but their instincts are not good. either god doesn't exist or he's unimaginably cruel.
what do you believe? why do you think this happened?
me neither. too bad.
huh-huh. so god does exist 'less you get raped. easier to keep your rape baby for no reason.
he hurts you to help you.
i guess it's better than he hates you.
because you're throwing your life away.
what you believe doesn't make sense.
then i can't help you.
if you believe in eternity then... life is irrelevant. same way that a bug is irrelevant in comparison to the universe.
[jabbing the table with his finger] your actions here are all that matters.
so you need to think that the guy that did this to you is gonna be punished.
yeah. you feeling comfortable? feeling good right now? feeling warm inside?
that'll help you? make you feel better?
the answer doesn't interest me. i don't care what he's feeling. i'm interested in what you're feeling.
i'm trapped in a room with you right?
why did you choose me?
[softly] it was true.
wasn't my grandmother but it was true.
it's my dad.
i'd like to hear it.
[concentrating more on the game] she terminated it. she's been discharged.
[eyes still on the game] yeah it's that simple.
everyone will tell you... that that's what we gotta make her do. we have to help her right? except we can't. we drag out her story. tell each other that it'll help her heal. feel real good about ourselves. but all we've done is make a girl cry.
[finally looks up] because i don't know.
[collecting his jacket] one day one room.
the only thing i hate more than a thief is a crippled thief.
(interrupting) who the hell is j. whitner?
normal is good. send him home. (entering diagnostics office.) j. whitner. doctor. who is he and where do i find him?
just means she can't bend over. so cuddy has to bend over backward.
that's odd.
what took you so long to mention it?
(looking at scan on light board) looks like a plumbing problem to me. leaky pipes.
that's why you're going to do a venogram instead of an arteriogram. this isn't a high pressure burst it's a low pressure leak.
so go look under his mattress. see if he's got any pills or powders stashed with the hand lotion.
sweet ride. i asked for the one with the sissy bar and the banana seat but santa gave me this instead. (shows cane) i guess that's what i get for being naughty.
yeah. so looks like there's been some sort of mix-up at the parking office.
had to? you don't look like the type to pull a weapon.
cane. i think you should do the honorable thing. let me have my space back.
cane. walking long distances makes my leg hurt.
course not. pushing that little lever. thumb muscles must burn. i'm sure the last ten yards are pure torture.
you ever hit a patch of black ice with a cane?
this is about who can most easily cross the parking lot. you're the winner.
actually i can. (makes serious face) see. it's my space and i want it back.
and whitner's says she can roll 50 miles between oil changes. i can't change my leg.
great. so i can collapse four yards into the lobby instead of outside in the cold.
you know who won the new york city marathon six years in a row? guy in a wheelchair!
give me my space i'll be happy to roll around in one all day.
wanna bet?
nothing that a week off my feet won't solve.
you mean you couldn't find the leak.
no. my parking spot is. blood is only made inside the circulatory system. which means when you find outside
easier than chopping off my legs.
yeah. he's also a human being. which means you shouldn't be trusting him to begin with. stop relying on his answers and find some on your own.
or we should find the leak.
hey. you can't yell at a guy in a wheelchair. this is a slow leak. you gotta speed it up. thin his blood redo the venogram.
(backing onto elevator) excellent. massive will be even easier to find. pardon me. i guess you guys are going to have to get the next one.
(flipping open charts <U+0096> the clinic desk is just above his armpit level.) it's not a clot. you must have blocked the vein with a catheter wire.
massive clots block veins they don't even leak. since he clearly has some kind of (puts the charts together can't reach the box they go in.)
(to nurse) would you mind? (she takes them) boy that was humiliating. how does whitner make it through the day?
lucky for me i'm sitting in one of these babies. so what other theories can i shoot down?
his platelets are normal. his pct isn't elevated.
normal cbc anddifferential? you guys are still thinking like doctors when you should be thinking like plumbers. come on i wanna see some butt crack. something inside the liver is punching holes in the pipes. blood bleeds through the openings sticks to the intruder forms a mass.
a mass.
do a ct mri sputum and ace level. excuse me sorry cripple coming through.
that phrasing means you think it doesn't.
good enough for me. (starts to leave)
mothers know best. get yourself a sucker on the way out.
how did you know i was a truant officer?
right. he's wasting your precious time so you decided to waste mine. how thoughtful. i'm in a wheelchair so i can't examine him all the way up there. (to jack) hop down. my life is just one horror after another. open.
nope. (he crashes into table and pulls out a huge syringe)
syringe. i'm with you. make him hate the doctor's office more than he hates school.
it's just saline. it hurts like hell when it's injected directly into the muscle. (jack hides behind mom) so what do you think? arm or ass?
oh i don't know. you'd better check. jack is your mommy a big fat idiot? (jack nods) well what do you know! i guess you were right.
oh now i've gotta slide my butt from one padded seat to another. what if i bump my knee?
(swings into car) fantastic. wanna give me a hand here? (indicates wheelchair)
i know. that's why i said fantastic. i was being sincere. now give me a hand.
it wouldn't be fair not to. people are good and kind and gentle and help people in wheelchairs.
you do.
foreman forget the biopsy. his liver will be gone before you get the results. start treatment with cyclophosphamide before the wegener's punches a hole in another pipe. (foreman leaves as house wrestles chair into car. he can't reach the door to close it. turns on car backs up quickly and brakes hard. the door slams shut. smug grin.)
(removing gloves) ah if it isn't dr. i-had-no-friends-when-i-was-growing-up-so-all-i-did-was-watch-tv-by-myself-which-is-why-i-can-now-make-constant-pop-culture-references-which-no-one-understands-but-me.
(sits back down) safe from cuddy but i guess not from her trusted ratcomplice.
reasonable people make rules based on evidence. like difficulty covering a distance <U+0096> say 50 yards. not some pre-ordained patheticness scale.
it's only pig-headed if you're wrong. if you're right we call it sticking to your principles. (backs chair into stall and closes door)
that's what they told rosa parks.
we talking about the patient or how to get a raise from cuddy?
which means it's wegener's.
not everything.
the treatment made his bladder worse not his liver.
and mri sputum and ace ruled out tb sarcoidosis and lymphoma. which leaves us with
a cancer we can't see on mri ct or blood tests?
it's not the wrong diagnosis. it's the wrong treatment.
(doing wheelies) methotrexate is carpet bombing. hits everything. we need a smart bomb. we don't suppress the immune system. we change it. immune modulation. ft-28. his antibodies are attacking his blood vessels. the irritation causes them to bleed and clot. we change his immune system so the antibodies don't interact with his blood vessels but work fine everywhere else.
it's worked for crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis.
let's say that he does. and start the treatment.
they're absolutely right. stay away from that unproven experimental stuff. much better to stick with the moving the furniture until he gets better approach.
you mean another last ditch desperation move? you got anything? go back and don't take no for an answer. what kind of salesman are you?
they got money for tin foil they got money for whatever you're selling.
it means that if they don't trust you you should earn that lack of trust.
why should i have to answer all the questions? (wedges whitner against the wall) ooops. sorry still getting used to the power steering. (foreman leaves) i assume you've heard the news.
my will may be weak but my backbone is strong. and pain-free now that i've stopped using the cane. of course it's harder to look down cuddy's shirt. but then the vantage point on her ass is much improved. but then that's just me <U+0096> always looking on the bright side. i'm the guy who said her c-cups are half full.
(growling noise) no no no no no. you're not going to win me over that easily. you may have a wheel. that doesn't mean you get the grease. you gotta squeak.
(on intercom) what's taking so long? (rings for elevator)
the spleen is ripped to shreds. there's gotta be granulomas. keep looking.
run his bowel.
run his bowel.
you missed it. he had a granuloma in his liver.
(standing wearing one glove and a half-on gown but no mask) not unless you're going to sew my hand in this kid's stomach.
he's got wegener's. which means he's got granulomas.
it's only 26 feet. if he were an ostrich you'd have a 46 foot wait.
(running bowel) hang another bag of ringer's lactate.
foreman hang another bag
come on come on. it's gotta be in here. (finishes) but it's not.
well it's a good thing we never sold him on ft-28. his parents were right.
bleeds clots bleeds clots. spleen explodes.
or let's play tic tac toe. okay xs are bleeds os are clots. started in the lungs right? what did we do?
(marking a human body chart) that's one bleed one clot. then what?
whereupon he peed out three units of o negative. and a bleed.
i don't know yet. what's next?
gi tract?
large bowel is fixed to the abdominal wall. i didn't run that.
do a colonoscopy.
you lose your keys the first thing you do is look everywhere you might logically have placed them. when you don't find them then you start looking in other places <U+0096> the medicine cabinet freezer mailbox. we need to look in this kid's mailbox.
because we need to take the center square to block. (holds up chart)
i like that kid. he's got spunk. (leaves followed by chase. cameron stands there)
can't talk now. on guard duty.
what thing? oh this? forgot it was even there.
a bet's a bet.
you're right.
yeah.
who needs legs when you got wheels. i'm gonna get that spot. (loudly) no way cuddy is going to gyp me.
i'll see you later. gonna have them yelling at me for the next 20 minutes.
this is my last day living the life of leisure. so are you going to tell dr. whitner she's out of my space or can i?
because you said that you would. and lying is wrong.
which i...
how'd you know about that?
i saved a life. two minutes out of the chair to save a kid's life.
i earned that space.
i earn that space every day i limp into that building and do my damn job.
hey (lurches out of chair and lurches up to cuddy) you were never going to give me that space were you? i saw whitner the other day. she knew about the bet. didn't seem that worried.
she doesn't know me. in fact she doesn't know anything except what you tell her. and you told her that you were never going to give me that space didn't you? just tell me <U+0096> do you at least feel a little guilty? if you want to teach me lessons don't make commitments you can't keep. (cuddy heads toward the hospital house turns to parking lot. wilson approaches)
how guilty does she look?
that space is mine. veni vidi vici.
where's foreman?
somewhere. very helpful.
sometime.
getaway.
(speaking slower.) getaway. (wendy looks puzzled.) get away. (with a disgusted look she does so.)
foreman. your girlfriend wants to know if you're available for valentine's. act surprised. what are you doing down here?
take your time. what's your name?
you have cipa hannah morgenthal.
we have to do x-rays to make sure you don't have internal injuries. blood test to make sure no infections. an eeg for neurological anomalies and biopsy a spinal nerve.
yeah and i have seven reasons to think that she's one of them.
and that's reason number one. she knew what it was without us telling her. two she's still went from the snow but she's not shivering. that's odd. unless she can't sweat or feel hot and cold.
three scarring around the lip and tongue. when she was a baby she chewed on herself without feeling it.
four when you cleaned the wound she flexed into the cleaner instead of away from it. it's hard to fake pain when you've never felt it. takes an imaginative leap ms. morgenthal. that's one of them jew names. ashkenazys are a higher risk group.
they killed our lord. are you going to trust them? she wants to see her mom. if she admits having cipa she knows we're not letting her go anywhere without a battery of tests.
i pulled a number out of the air. what five isn't enough?
i could hit her again if six aren't enough. do the tests. (hannah sighs resigned.)
need to bail on the e.r. i got a case. why are you wearing perfume?
cipa.
she's got no idea what's going on in her body. there's gotta be something wrong.
she was in a car accident. she needs x-rays blood tests eeg nerve biopsy. i also note that although the snow was coming down in sheets this morning you left your hat at home and used ear muffs.
so while everyone else was just worrying about getting in you were concerned with about hat head. blind dates are never a good idea. only reason to wear a scarf like that is as a beacon to identify you in a crowd.
i need the nerve biopsy.
but it's neurological.
she tripped.
(leaving) you could have left the scarf at home and just told him you'd be wearing a look of desperation.
so sedate her.
she's a teenager.
well only until you inject her with a sedative. then you can let her go.
seriously?
so break her arm. she won't mind.
i'm in pain. let's go break her arm.
nurse shortie your biz-nitch how long are you gonna waste her time.
when you guys are out of this program cameron will find somebody. chase will find eight somebodies. and you'll be alone.
you'll date and you'll date. but you're the ultimate darwinian. you've got to fight for everything. anybody else would just slow you down.
yeah. i can only imagine it's because she hasn't given you an excuse to break up and you don't have the guts to recognize your own reality. (opens procedure room door)
hi again. i'm sure i can say this without being condescending but then you'd get the false impression that i respect you so <U+0096> you're a kid you're scared you're stalling. grow up.
see? how juvenile was that? you can't feel pain. nothing left but pleasure. why don't you tell me how wonderful that is?
better than being in pain all the time. get in the chair.
oh god stop. i'm in a pool of tears here.
neither can i. every morning i check my eyes for jaundice in case the vicodin's finally shot my liver.
i can't run.
girls can't hold me for too long because i only pay for an hour.
the bathroom's 50 feet from my office. every drink of water i weigh the pros and cons
i got shot.
yeah.
you think i just wanna check out your tuchus as your people would say. (as she stands and turns to show him her butt he uncaps syringe and injects her. she turns back and he shows her the empty syringe. fellows catch her as she slumps down.) put her in the chair and run the damn test. if she moves again give her nitrous.
some think the two are connected.
wow. she's actually sick.
no. lp showed normal proteins and no white blood cells.
nope. transaminases were normal.
no again. tox screen was clean.
and biopsy a spinal nerve.
i want to risk paralysis because i don't know what's causing the fever. if it's neurological
in a cipa patient. obviously things are a little different in her upstairs wiring.
yah. it's much more likely that whatever it is was cleverly waiting and hiding until you guys were done testing. (takes coat and starts out door)
you're all against this right? and you're all going to stand on principle and refuse to do it right? i'm going to get cuddy's approval.
(enters) i need the nerve biopsy.
i had to bring the file. this is the most noncommittal location within walking distance. you left your car keys on your desk. (turns to don. loudly) greg house. you two must have met online. either that or you've got a friend who secretly hates you.
why would he volunteer that information?
you didn't tell him that anything he said will be held against you? (to don) so what line of work are you in?
great my place overcharges. you can't trust anything you guys say. so where are you located?
clean. normal. same with the white blood cell count.
nothing on the scan. i think it's her nerves messing with the temperature control. amyloid sarcoid there's a lot of candidates. i want a biopsy.
(leans close to cuddy's ear and announces loudly) he seems a lot nicer than that one from wicca needs a daddy figure dot com. (grabs a cookie from their table and leaves.)
(eating) the guy with eleven fingers?
how do you not notice that?
she's not anymore?
i thought we were.
mmmm. tranny nurse is more interesting.
no one enjoys<U+0097>
she's actually sick.
i was curious. since i'm not a cat that's not dangerous.
thank you. forewarned is forearmed.
i think if you'd stop talking to cameron then right now we could be ranking nurses in order of doability.
what did the nerve biopsy show?
well then do it.
why?
and you think i can catch her? (foreman dashes out.)
this is excellent.
but if you're going to die a miserable lingering death pain free is the way to do it. are we sure the fall didn't cause the paralysis?
even better. the nuttiness and paralysis means there's definitely a neurological component.
which is why we need to look at the nerve that you didn't biopsy.
hiv? syphilis? she was negative for all stds. vascular? no ana was negative. cerebral clot? no mri was
yeah. i'll check with an endocrinologist.
perfect.
need a consult.
i need an endocrinologist.
won't pick up. his cell phone must be broken.
had to give you the file.
normal. tsh was on the low side. is that a cheery fire i hear crackling nearby?
elevated. 275. of course people light fires for themselves. but then they don't deny it. he's here.
(looks at her then looks skyward in exaggerated manner) oh my god. you're not wearing a bra.
you just met him.
no. but it might be worth taking out an ad in the local papers.
when we met i noticed
you left out the third option. evil bastard who just wants to mess with other people's happiness.
it's not thyroid storm. get me a spinal nerve.
she just said the girl's getting worse. you really want to wait? (drops file on his desk. looks around confused.)
(leaving office) it is worse. we're making it worse than worse? do the biopsy.
do the biopsy.
a little further from the truth. we're talking paralysis. good chance the spine is relevant. this thing is progressing. it could kill her in hours. (opens door to wilson's office. wilson is reading. house holds out his hand.) give me back my papers.
yeah yeah yeah yeah. if it happened to come from a person with cipa i could grow pain-free nerves and graft them into my own leg. what an evil plan.
shorter but normal.
medical fact changes all the time.
that's how medical fact changes. a doctor risks
this is medically justified.
biopsy whatever nerve you figure you can safely get at. god wilson's annoying.
which means it's secondary demyelination. which means the source is somewhere else. which tells us it's not a nerve disease means it's something systemic that's affecting the nerves. which mean we need to (to cameron) where are you going?
i'll be right back.
so what?
yes immediately after we're done chatting about saving her life. most likely causes are metabolic.
again so what? get a nurse to take the kid. there are more than sixty different metabolic conditions that could account for what she's got. there are only three of you guys.
she should be. she'll die if we don't diagnose her.
so what does the pain tell us?
exactly. what were they doing when she got the headache?
you said they were arguing.
what were they arguing about?
peripheral neuropathy fever and intermittent paranoia. lots of metabolic conditions can explain those things. but what if we add guilt?
alzheimer's can cause euphoria. pain causes depression. and b12 deficiency causes guilt along with all that other stuff.
we don't. give her a shot of b12. if she gets better i was right.
(entering) why are you still here?
i still haven't figured out why.
just dumped a cool b12 theory. moved on to leukemia. (drops file on wilson's desk.)
i'm not happy. her white blood cell count was low. but the ones she's got just a whole lot of eosinophils.
team's doing a biopsy right now. (sits) so it turns out the weird lawyer knew that she used to be a man.
turns out that his previous girlfriend also used to be a man.
yeah. (reaches over and grabs half of wilson's sandwich.)
is that nitrous? what are you trying to kill her? you gave her nitrous during the eeg. that's what made this thing rear it's ugly head.
b12 deficiency.
because someone else ate it. get an abdominal mri.
see. there she goes. another paranoid delusion. she's going downhill. forget the mri. we need an o.r.
her hernia can wait. (he is pulling on gown as he talks. no mask.)
okay. you can either believe that we really are trying to kill her or you can assume that she's suffering from a medical condition. seeing as this is a hospital and we're all dressed like doctors and there are easier ways to kill somebody
i'm going to need iodine scalpel numbers 10 and 15 forceps and a largish salad bowl. (hannah continues to struggle as house starts to bare her midriff.) okay. hold her down. come on weenies she's in a cast. swab. (swabs hannah's belly hands it back to bev.) fifteen.
relax. it's just a magic trick. (as he begins to cut her stomach hannah starts screaming as loud as she can.) she's faking it. (to hannah) we're not falling for it this time. (hannah drops her head back on the gurney defeated.) okay keep that retracted. (house works at the incision for a moment.) forceps. (house starts to pull a tape worm out of hannah narrating in an exaggerated 1950s documentary voice) lake fishing can be fun. it can bring the generations together. (back to his normal voice) if you don't cook that trout or perch well you'll be giving room and board to this fellow. by free board i mean all the b12 you can take in.
not likely. you'd be in a lot of pain. (as he continues to pull the tapeworm out a nurse snaps a picture with her cell phone.)
damn. world record's over sixty.
she's got no reason to give it.
the hospital will send her a bill.
yeah.
where you going?
you're not intrigued as to how a perfectly healthy ten-year-old boy with no prior musical training gets into an accident on his way to school...
...and suddenly starts playing piano?
you two shower together?
[to foreman] double negative. it's a yes.
[taking a donut out of the bag] just because it's inexplicted doesn't mean it's inexplicable. i want new labs. cbc with platelets chem panel thyroid and adrenal function tests. [bites donut]
[mouth full shrugs] i don't know.
radcliffe? what was the cross street?
i don't know. you're the one who brought it up. [holds out his left arm and puts a strap over it] tie this off.
nice and tight.
you have a blister. you don't waste a doctor's time with a blister. waste a doctor's time with more important things like the sewer that's beng vented out of your mouth.
[moving away as she speaks] if you could stop doing that we'd all be grateful.
nope! but you can stop puking. [removes the strap from his arm and takes out the needle.]
your lips say no your gnarly fingers say -- [makes a vomiting noise like uwaah!]
[to the patient] it's a shame. you look cute that thin.
what tests did you run?
[to nurse at nurse's station] i need this blood checked for cholesterol and glucose levels.
different patient.
[quickly changing the subject] you're using the wrong equipment.
i'm dr. house. on the off-chance that dr. foreman didn't mention it i have something of a gift too. [to patrick beckoning] c'mon.
your turn.
[nods] it might. [to patrick] okay patrick. close your eyes.
what's this? [hits a few keys at once.]
[interrupting] yeah all right all right.
[looking at patrick] he's great. he's staying.
[to foreman] call radiology. i need a functional mri of his brain.
i'm not looking for trauma. i wanna see the music.
well that's dull.
would be hugely helpful. somehow he got rewired as a music specialist. i wanna know how that happens.
his brains doing nothing. looks like any jerk listening.
turn off the music.
[over radio] patrick i want you to pretend that your leg is a piano.
[gimme strength] i know. that's why i said pretend. [shuts off the microphone to foreman] kid's a moron. [turns microphone back on] keep your head still use your fingers.
[calm] cool huh? his heart rate rose.
then why is there no activity in the limbic system? unless there's a problem in his heart. do an echo to confirm. and scrub up. he's gonna need surgery.
[looking up from the file] unless the bleed happened suddenly. less blood to the brain explains dystonia. less blood to the heart explains the heart attack. scope him both above and below. if that doesn't work [tosses file on the table] gut him.
i wrote this when i was in junior high school. could never figure out what came next. and dimwit came up with this. [plays patrick's rendition]
it's perfect.
it's nothing. [takes his cane from above the piano.]
you need to talk about it.
you're making a big deal out of nothing. who else knows?
sorry didn't mean to offend your specialty.
stein's good.
he's given me at least six months. go to boston get the treatment. [sighs] everything will be fine. no need to talk about it.
[accusingly] you told him.
[pissed] hey! okay. you guys have cleverly deduced that i have cancer. you have no right to know. you have no business knowing.
as soon as you work up our patient who is not me.
i wasn't. let's move on.
[loud] no!
okay we're going to proceed as if i'm perfectly healthy.
you don't know anything! except hopefully our patient on anti-convulsive medication has a seizure.
[perusing the printout] according to the surgeon's report this one wasn't even close to manageable.
what's changed?
why don't we make it even worser?
[explaining] we take him off anti-convulsive medication.
dude can't button a shirt. how much more damage are we really talking about?
once he gets worse do a pet scan.
[removing the glasses] pet scan done?
you come for my feelings?
'cause i left them in my other pants.
thank you for writing your own. sure my thoughts are beautifully phrased. [signs it]
stay away from weiss. he cries with his patients. holds their hands as they die. he won't like you.
your new-found nonchalance in the face of cancer.
twenty seconds. pretty good.
time it took you to go from hard-ass to human being.
you really wanna leave?
i'm not dead yet.
what're you doing?
i know this must be a turn-on for you.
a little whorish to kiss and stab.
i didn't want you to die without knowing the feeling. [yanks the syringe from her hand] actually no woman should die without knowing the feeling.
foreman and chase's lips are not gonna get to close [holding up the syringe] now that i know your plan.
[has had enough] i'm patient number oh-two-oh-four-oh-six in the record room under the name luke n. laura! there's a whole file of blood there along with ct scans mris csf everything you need.
[calling after her] you need a sperm sample come back without the needle.
hah! okay let's assume that i am dying. which i specifically told you not to assume -- [brushes it off]. can we at least assume that i'm not dying tomorrow? [puts the scan on the table] whereas this kid...
pet reveals several more hotspots. but they're non-specific...
[mock crying] 's the only way i can cope. [normal voice] pet also showed the left brain is working hard...
wouldn't be worth mentioning otherwise.
yes! he needs an angiogram to look at the vasculature inside his brain.
don't get up. i got it. you're busy. continue.
you know what my team is doing right now?
trying to figure what's wrong with me.
thanks for asking. they found out that i'm dying.
[moves a scanner above patrick's head] everyone's dying.
meteor lands on my head tomorrow it's all academic. i told them to leave me alone. but did they?
no that one was rhetorical.
no they did not.
who the hell were you before you hit your head?
so is ass bitch.
i can probably rattle off fifty much more complicated disgusting ones but then your dad would get pissed at me.
like your life?
your life. like the piano? going on tours. scoring girls left and right.
[oh okay then] boys. [shrugs] whatever gets you off.
[entering from behind] transduction-inhibitors are a decade away.
[into phone] hi pete! [hangs up]
[interrupting] stop... trying to save me. i'm fine. mra confirms smalls collections of blood throughout the white matter of patrick's right hemisphere. mind if we chat about that for a few moments?
we need a biopsy to figure out which it is.
everywhere!
he's bleeding into his brain. he's dying.
[mock-whining] i'm only gonna take little tiny pieces.
'til i find the problem.
no i'll keep going even if i kill him. [looks at them sighs] then he's screwed. thanks for the chat.
i'm actually little insulted. you were supposed to spend the last hour worried about me.
but that's why god invented the long consent form. can you get to why this is a brilliant idea?
[shrugs] brilliant. go. do.
[getting up from the couch] this is gonna get personal isn't it?
[eagerly] where do we cut?
[here we go again] something personal?
and i can't leave because you got something interesting in that file.
[impatient] can we get to the but part of this speech?
[looks at him for a beat] no you don't. you're just reacting to the perception of my death. you need to put things in order. fear of guilt...
see? i annoy you. now are you gonna give me the results or are we gonna... [makes a hug-and-cry gesture.]
[finally getting his hands on the file] which means it's autoimmune.
so while you guys were worried about me half of this kid's brain died. the only solace you should take from this is the fact that... it didn't. garden-variety eeg sucks compared to the in-brain variety which is not gonna miss brain death.
not that much worse.
not that much worse. he can still talk. he's left-handed which means his speech is in the right side.
[looking at a model of a brain] what if the right side... is just a little dead. maybe he has random neurons firing.
you're right. he's dead. let's go home.
[emphatically] yes!
[quietly] shut up.
[almost beaming] music is a global process. can't play the piano with half a brain.
means the right side of his brain has always sucked. means it's not relevant what's going on now.
yeah! question is what do we do about it?
not what i was talking about. but yeah you do that.
[without turning around] your turn?
[turning around] you mean cheapen everyone's attempt at a human moment by identifying the real calculations that go into it?
yeah! i do. [goes back to reading the magazine]
well if you're considering grabbing my ass don't start anything...
... you can't finish.
as long as we're just standing here you mind if we work? how's the kid's treatment going?
are you crying?
not for what i'm gonna do next.
only if he wants to remain a four-year-old who wets his bed.
there's better. thanks for the hug. [leaves]
phone would have woken you up just as much. i can see what you're wearing on the phone.
[closing the door] my patient with the fifty-five iq has takayasu syndrome. very uncommon. happens mostly in asian women.
my patient also has a significant seizure problem.
yes. he kept taking his anticonvulsive medication he could go back on tour and play the piano.
but... a hemispherectomy would completely stop the right-brain seizure activity and he would no longer need to take his anticonvulsive medication.
[confirming] the right half. it'd be irresponsible to remove the left.
not my brain. but his who knows? what? lets say i'm the left side of patrick's brain i'm quick- witted i'm charming i'm great looking.
you're the right side of his brain. you're useless old damaged.
we go to a bar for a drink. now i have the mad skills to be scoring all the hot babes but instead i'm spending my time wiping drool off your chin and making sure you don't eat the tablecloth.
i don't know.
forgot i was dying huh?
[all right!] i need you.
one small feel for man. one giant ass for mankind.
[like asking for change] i think we should we should remove the right side of your son's brain.
does he look fixed? right side of his brain is keeping him walking straight. other than that it's been dead-weight ever since the accident. 'f we remove it seizures would stop completely.
but without the seizures the left side would have a chance to actually function. he'll learn to do new things. only bummer he'll never play the piano again.
i'm not saying he'd ever work for nasa but flipping burgers isn't out of the question.
no you're actually lucky. you don't have to watch your kid grow up you don't have to let go.
he's a monkey-grinder at the circus.
so has the monkey. [beat] the piano is a neurological accident.
and i'm offering him a life.
it's up to you.
i got a flight in three hours.
i don't have neurosyphilis. my mri showed nothing...
we would have used a condom and i don't have syphilis. my vdrl was negative...
[quietly seriously] did you send these results to mass general?
[pissed] you... idiots.
i was sure it was cancer.
[turning around loudly] because... it wasn't my damn file!
the real patient is in the witherspoon wing. feel free to tell his wife he's not gonna die but he is cheating on her.
[exasperated] i didn't!! i wanted the guys at boston to think that i had cancer. i wanted the guys who were gonna implant a cool drug right into pleasure centre of my brain to think that i had cancer!
i'm going to bed.
sure. now that i'm not dying.
he survived the surgery. he's unconscious but...
i'm not depressed.
it was an outpatient procedure. i was curious.
not since last year's christmas party. whoof! [beat] i know this goes against your nature but can we not make too much of this?
[protesting] i didn't make them! i tried to hide it! you idiots needed to get into my business.
i'm sure i'll regret asking but why are you laughing?
i'm sure i'll regret asking but why...?
because... they're boring. [looks at wilson] go home to your hotel room and laugh at that irony.
[switching off the penlight] follow my finger.
you know your name?
speech centre was on the right side. it'll be a while before he's talking.
[nods] it'll take some time to...
looks happy.
yeah like i could sleep down there with all the crying and coughing.
[rolls his eyes.] there's no such thing.
why wouldn't i want to take the case? [starts opening the file.] the guy's tired and sore it's going to be chapter one in my... [stops mid sentence when he sees the photo of the patient and is shocked when it matches up exactly with the sergeant (john) in his dream.]
never met him before in my life.
no it's not.
i can play the harmonica with my nose make a penny come out of a child's ear or any other orifice for that matter; under the right circumstances i could bring two women into simultaneous ecstasy.
what i absolutely cannot do is dream about someone i've never seen before.
true it can't happen because it can't happen!
right just some other guy who looks exactly like him.
there's no record of him ever coming into the clinic so i must have seen him before somewhere else.
he was in the navy not the marines.
the guy in the village people.
i didn't pee.
male 34 just got out of the marines after 2 years in iraq. admitted complaining of chronic fatigue joint pains intermittent rashes and sore throats. thinks he has gulf war syndrome.
because he has a rich uncle that cuddy is trying to avoid fellating and doesn't buy the va's diagnosis of nothing's-wrong-atosis. [pops a pill.]
stick to your guns chase. just because there isn't a single unifying symptom doesn't mean there isn't something going on. could just affect everyone differently.
course not. he's depressed and he's looking for a disability check. most likely because he's just realised that knowing how to barter for sex in six languages and open a beer bottle with your eye socket are not the most marketable skills.
because a good scientist continually questions his own theories and assumptions.
now i'm making you. do a full physical and recheck his blood for hiv hep c malaria schistosomiasis and t strain a. baumannii just to make sure the va's dotted their i's and find out every hospital and clinic he's ever visited every city he's ever lived in and... whether he's ever been on tv. [starts to walk towards his office.]
[turns around.] the problem could be neurological everyone knows tv rots your brain. [continues to his office.]
has he ever done any modelling?
[turns around.] this way. did you find out about any television or other media exposure?
of course i care what a horrible thing to say. do a lexis-nexis search and get a copy of his credit report.
i say before. and i say in between give him a polysomnogram. sleep apnea could cause chronic fatigue and paranoia. find out where he went to summer camp. [foreman shakes his head house turns around to start walking off but stops cameron moves forward.]
yea just a little too much coffee this morning.
[sighs.] i wish. [cameron gives him a weird look.] wilson was just in there. these guys know what i'm talking about. [house walks off while cameron looks confused. chase and foreman look at each other and then walk off in the opposite direction to house.]
[hits the wall.] damn it. [sighs and chucks the ice pack he was holding into the sink and pulls up his pants hobbles slowly over to the mirror and grabs a pill bottle. he shakes it and stares at himself in the mirror for a few seconds before popping a pill.]
what?
where's his mouth been?
selfish bastard.
selfish bitch. [cameron rolls her eyes.]
who was his last girlfriend?
right about cancer wrong about lymphoma. unless you're simply hiding the fact that his lymph nodes are swollen. get wilson to biopsy his salivary glands. he's got parotid cancer and see if you can get to the truth about who he's been dating there's no way a marine goes a year without getting some blood on his bayonet.
just do it. [hangs up the phone goes back to the magazine.]
no hurry. probably nothing we can do at this point anyway.
he's spitting stink. you should focus on the living. i need a prescription.
for vicodin i need alfuzosin.
what? oh that i haven't really thought about it. i can't pee.
i can't pee.
i want to pee and not be in pain.
i don't pee when i'm asleep.
i haven't peed in three days.
very useful did you hear what i just said?
i'm not obsessing.
[yelling.] i haven't peed in three days!
i'm not counting intermittent drips.
i passed agony yesterday around 4. [pops a pill.]
on a bed of nails?
[takes a deep breath.] you smoke?
[yelling.] stop it! [woman jumps and stops moving the bottle.]
any history of hypertension? blood clots? strokes?
you have ocd.
any other compulsions besides drinking massive amounts of water?
you get up in the middle of the night to drink?
then your therapist is an idiot. unconscious people don't have ocd. they can however have diabetes insipidus.
different kind of diabetes. this kind is cause by a banged up pituitary. you're obviously more of a lover than a fighter i'm guessing either a car accident or... you cracked your skull on the balance beam.
easy nice ass no boobs you got palms like a longshoreman. wait here you need a cat scan.
don't worry just means you'll be taking two hormone supplements instead of one.
i got relief. i just got no pee. [pops a pill.]
you didn't come here to talk to me about my pee what's going on?
death is probably next.
no way he could've grown all these in a week.
maybe but it means some poor sap's getting his melon sliced in the va for no reason.
where have you two been?
wilson's found some fast growing illusive or magic brain tumours. what did you find?
nope. i have them researching my patient.
where you going?
he's not your patient.
he's dead.
least he will be in a few days. question is why? the only explanation is that the va hospital screwed up.
yes why would a government agency lie to cover up a mistake? might've caused the death of a guy they've been trying to kill for the last two years anyway.
no it was an antidepressant i was told to take two every time you walked into the room.
yes this has proved positive that someone didn't have tumours in his brain.
why didn't you send his urine to leicester like i told you?
why did you choose that moment to listen to me?
radiation's the only thing that will make tumours grow that fast.
do it anyway. [chase goes to grab the right urine sample.] [to cameron.] and you call his uncle back find out if he ever brought his nephew to any hospital parties or fundraisers.
because... i'm your boss.
i've got a full bladder and i'm not afraid to use it.
[cuts her off.] shut up! do what you're told. cuddy and wilson may not have to listen to me but you do. [leaves.]
unless they were never there to begin with.
maybe someone else did. maybe it was dr. self-righteous.
then they were never tumours to begin with.
no you saw something that looked like tumours. we all did. we were all wrong. well maybe he doesn't have cancer maybe he has a brain infection that's causing multiple abscesses.
no they were healed by the antibiotics we're giving him for the vaginosis in his mouth.
i don't know. yet.
john john! we're going to figure out what's wrong with you but first we need to know one thing. have you ever appeared in any pornos?
chronic fatigue sore throats rashes putrid discharge of the mouth multiple abscesses in the brain hearing loss and last but not least lower limb paralysis. he's certainly given us plenty of clues.
that's miraculously improving in his brain but getting worse in his ears and legs?
mm-hmm. you're basing this theory on the negative biopsy the lymph nodes that aren't swollen or the tumours that were never there to begin with?
it's not depleted uranium.
who asked for the test when we were thinking cancer we no longer are.
not spinal cord cells. at least not until the dose is high enough to kill all his other cells first.
[sighs.] the sun is radioactive the earth is radioactive this hospital is filled with radiation. the issue is not where it is but how much there is and what damage that amount could cause inside someone's spinal cord as i've already stated quite clearly...
give me your keys.
you ever tried riding a motorcycle with a distended bladder? [wilson throws his keys to house.] keep him on antibiotics check his hearing and paralysis every hour. [starts to leave.]
no... i basically want to do nothing. i want you to keep him on antibiotics and check his hearing and paralysis every hour. [continues leaving.]
actually i have to go home now. it's two days past my bedtime.
and i need sleep. hey it's the brain's way of working out problems that the conscious mind can't solve during the day remember? [leaves.]
so where were we?
no. [gets rid of the remote and walks out.]
tells us something.
worse is something.
did we think it was?
great now the fact that he's getting worse tells us nothing. never thought it was uranium. for all we know uranium treatment is what's making him...
on what? kind of hard to say what it would have an effect on if you have no idea what's there to affect.
well next time go with something that has a chance of working.
we need more information.
it's not enough.
want to bet?
don't look at me i was home in bed.
he's bleeding out.
fine he's bleeding in.
he's not able to oxygenate his blood because he doesn't have any left. [starts to put down johns bed.]
the only thing that would explain...
there has to be a reason he needs a transfusion. get me four units of o negative stat! now let's elevate his feet. [pulls john's pillow out from under his head.]
nobody asked you. [puts the pillow under john's feet.] in fact why are you even here?
get out.
[looks down.] somebody must have spilled something. [goes back to what he was doing.] somebody else should be getting me four units of o negative stat.
it's a urine catheter collection bag with a rip in it what hell's it look like?
what? [more and more urine pours out of the bag.] it's just urine. it's sterile. no one's getting me blood! [house's nose starts bleeding.] why isn't anybody getting me blood?
why are you even here?
no you're not. there got to be a reason. there has to be. [house closes his eyes there's a quick shot of each of the ducklings then cuddy who smiles then john who opens his eyes and starts laughing manically.]
so where were we?
yes i did thank you. i'm guessing better than our patient. probably due to his bp and hematocrit plunging. [throws the remote to foreman.]
the answer was staring right at us the whole time as plain as the nose on our faces or the nose on his face.
no hairs and cauterisation scars.
he had it cauterised.
because it makes sense undoubtedly done to stop the same childhood nosebleeds that plagued his grandfather undoubtedly because they were both born with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia.
i'm saying you got a genetic disease that is destroying your capillaries.
not surprising since the most common initial symptoms skin rashes and nosebleeds are often written off as the result of minor trauma or dry weather. but they can also be the result of his arteries and veins merging together. he obviously has avm's. [camera takes a trip through john's chest showing what house is explaining.] an avm near his spine caused the paralysis. avm in his lungs prevented his blood from being filtered. dirty blood caused the joint pain fatigue and the infections in his mouth and brain. nothing that a few surgeries won't clear up. get mr angiograms of the aforementioned. the marines weren't hiding anything he was or at least he forgot to mention his bloody tissue issue. [house leaves.]
there is no medicine like happiness except maybe laughter or rubber tubes shoved up your urethra.
it's actually not that bad after the first... i don't know 9 or 10 inches. cath relieved the spasm. i'm as good as new.
[flushes.] yeah that was my thought too. [walks over to wash his hands.]
thank god. actually it was a triple dose of the good stuff that allowed me to finally get some sleep and solve the case. the pills made all my dreams come true.
i got one in my sleep the other one i got in the shower. [walks out.]
i've been thinking about you. you lied.
like the fact that you lied. no wonder i couldn't place his face. you were practically swallowing it on the dance floor.
talk about the cool uncle he donates the money while the nephew gets the write off. of course by write off i mean he gets to put your ankles...
because of my t-shirt?
that's very smart because this way i spent my whole time completely focused on the patient.
what is this some new health plan? you service the dean of medicine and you get free health care for a year? [cuddy smiles.] why are you smiling?
i'm good with faces. so this plan is it open to anyone? is there a co-pay?
don't make this about me this is your humiliation. so how much for private room coverage?
oh give me a break. you hired me...
you gave me everything i asked for because one night i gave you everything you...
if you're still referring to you ass i think that super tanker sailed would be a more precise metaphor.
sorry looking for an extra large trash can. [dumps the files and paper in the bin and walks out shutting the door behind him.]
hi. i'm dr. house. my boss says you're important. [slides door closed.]
personally i don't get what's so hard about making scarlett johansson look pretty. arms out in front of you. [she does so while he gets an otoscope out of a drawer on the other side of the room.] with your palms up like you're holding a pizza. close your eyes.
dr. mackman tell you the clot was clear?
and he said you and the fetus are fine.
he didn't mention your pronator drift.
it means mackman is an idiot. [he sighs and gestures to the side of the bed.] may i?
so. you take thousands of photos of someone but only one has to look good. kind of the opposite of my business. [he is checking her eyes while they talk.]
eyes are gorgeous. vessels don't look so hot. micro-aneurysms predict further strokes.
unless i can figure out the underlying cause. puff up your cheeks. [she does and he taps them. they deflate with a slight popping sound.] you should be able to keep the air in. it means there's weakness around the mouth. so where'd you learn to self-diagnose a stroke?
interesting pet name. most people go with husband or pookie.
you turned him for a night? just straight for one date?
a man after my own heart. different magazine obviously. [emma smiles.] i'm rescinding mackman's discharge order. my lackeys will be in to do some more tests take some more blood and empty your catheter bag. [she has started taking pictures of him. he glowers slightly.] not a moment you'll want to cherish. [he holds up catheter bag which contains a dark red liquid. she stares.]
find anything else in the patient's folder? like a diagnosis?
so first she strokes now her kidneys are shutting down. why?
any of you guys ever been to the galapagos?
no. i'm looking for a vacation spot.
how would that differ from your current status?
visiting family. my uncle's a giant turtle.
kidneys don't often get stuck in the brain.
heart's way more likely to throw a clot than the kidney.
no but if one were to read the history closely one would have noticed that she had six cases of strep.
let me rephrase. six cases of untreated strep.
no one takes them all. they stop when they start feeling better. all strep is untreated strep. what happens when strep goes untreated?
which leads to cameron?
which is a thickening in the valve of thekidney? no. the kidney doesn't have a mitral valve.
it'll be easy to find. it's the big red pumping thing about ten inches below her throat.
i don't want a layover in frankfurt taipei singapore or london ontario. that's why i asked for a direct flight to phnom penh. [to fellows who have entered] how hard is it to not land? [back to phone] does it matter what i answer? well then fine i'd be delighted to hold. [back to fellows] what's new?
it's her job. what's new?
nope. gonna catch me a fish this big. [he holds his arms very wide.] mekong giant catfish weighs over 600 pounds.
that's why it's my last chance to catch one. [he puts phone on speaker and replaces it in cradle. all of our operators are currently] if the mitral valve had been fixed the kidneys should be getting better which leads us to the conclusion that you screwed up the procedure.
check for proteinuria and low platelets. what else?
put her on telemetry.
get a smear and ultrasound her vessels for plaque.
you know what would be even better? if we could narrow it all the way down to one. [they fellows leave in unison.]
either the differential was wrong or she's faking it.
that's not quite true. [he exits.]
[bending down and picking up a piece of clothing from the floor] we wanted to explore all the possibilities.
we've eliminated all the possibilities.
your body is functioning properly.
the other body isn't. there's something wrong with the fetus. [emma looks at him and tightens her mouth.]
welcome to the world of maternal mirror syndrome. [as he pulls back to underline it we see that he has written rorrim except the rs are reversed too.] mom's body is like an intricate german metro system. all the trains run on time. when she gets pregnant it's like a new station opening in dusseldorf. a bunch of rookies running things bound to be mistakes. kids play on the tracks get electrocuted. before you know it trains are backed up all the way to berlin and you've got a bunch of angry germans with nowhere to go. and we all know that ain't good for the jews.
a few things can happen to a fetus in distress. it can become a miscarriage stillbirth very sick baby or on rare occasion a time bomb that kills mom while it's dying. the good news is we fix the fetus mom gets better. it's the diagnostic equivalent of a two-for-one sale.
unfavorable. is that doctor speak for dead baby? you think she'll be less upset if you phrase it nicely?
if only there existed giant machines that could look through human skin. mirror syndrome has a limited number of known causes.
all of which are fixable. which would be un-unfavorable right?
and dr. storm cloud rained all over the differential and killed the beautiful little baby. heart's easiest to see easiest to fix so let's start there. when you did mom's mri did you get a look at the fetus' heart?
so we need another scan.
no need. i'm going to paralyze it.
let me guess. cameron.
no cameron had concerns. chase just agreed with her because he didn't want to lose his all-access pass to her love rug.
if by sleeping together you mean having sex in the janitor's closet.
no the janitor's closet at the local high school. [pumps his fist] go tigercats. do you have one of those camera-phones? because i have a myspace account.
oh come on. let's gossip some more. i'm sure she's into bondage. [cuddy grabs his arm and turns him to look at her.]
not paralyzing the thing risks not getting a clean mri of its heart. which we need to save its life which we need to do to save emma's life.
that shouldn't be too hard. sign here or you and your baby both die.
oh good.
the injection goes into the umbilical cord.
fetus! i'm lowering expectations. it works here and on dates. the benefits outweigh the risks and the paralytic will wear off in an hour. okay?
[whispers] fetus. hold this.
there's only room for one. though i could scooch over.
couldn't agree more. what goes on in the privacy of a janitor's closet is nobody's business except <U+0096>
i was actually hoping she'd fire one of you.
trying to avoid altitude sickness. couldn't score a direct flight to cambodia so i decided to scale argentina's infamous mount aconcagua
there's a tribe of macovi indians who actually carry the elders up <U+0096>
i'm an insane genius. set the chamber to low pressure instead of high. thinner air builds up extra red blood cells. creates new capillaries. few more days in here and i can save myself six weeks in base camp. where's my mri? [cameron slams down the phone.]
well you're trying to be me so i thought i'd try to be you.
but i have a much tighter ass. you think every day should be naked thursday or is that an oxymoron? [she reaches over and turns off the computer monitor. he sticks out his hand for the test results.] let me see the results of the bladder tap.
they're gonna to be inconclusive.
fetus doesn't pee amniotic fluid should be low. mom's level is fine.
either way your test will be inconclusive. the urine you collected has been sitting in that fetus' bladder for weeks. and as my pappy always said stale pee is useless pee.
just as useless. old urine drops down from the kidney right after the first tap cause it's all backed up. bladder tap number three will give you the freshest pee and it's when you'll find out if this fetus has even a fighting chance.
since when does the dean of medicine run bladder taps?
because she takes pictures? or because she's you? woman in her forties. single. using a turkey baster as a last gasp of motherhood. and you want to make sure she succeeds so you'll still have hope. can't be a good doctor if you're not objective.
i don't want it.
to humiliate you.
i don't want it. your diagnosis is right. i wanna go on vacation.
[big sigh] figures. just booked my trip to johnston straight.
apparently i'd have to live with the macovi indians for twenty years before they'd consider me an elder. [he tosses his sunglasses on his desk.] i decided to go kayaking with orca instead. no legs required.
even fetuses lie. we diagnosed a lower urinary tract obstruction because we saw one. what if that's not the whole story. what if the little bugger is hiding something? real reason for the mirror syndrome. have we looked under its bed? have we checked its diary?
she's not going to last weeks.
maternal mirror syndrome has one surefire cure. deliver the fetus.
fetus.
can it play catch? can it eat? can it take pretty pictures? who wants to tell her? [all three refuse to meet his eyes. he pushes off his desktop and grabs his coat.]
the swollen bladder was not the only problem. we can't leave it inside you. we have to terminate.
we can. and it won't matter. the fetus is still at least two weeks away from being viable.
you're on dialysis for your kidneys. your kidneys can wait. they don't make dialysis for your liver. you're not going to make it two more days.
it's killing you.
it's not a baby. it's atumor. [she holds up her hand in a stop gesture.] i understand dying for a cause sacrificing your life so your child might live. but that's not the choice here. either it dies or you both die.
i can't fix it. i'm scheduling a d and c. [he gets up to leave.]
her kidneys are almost irreparable. she's developed severe dic. you have to force her to terminate.
no! i dropped an anvil on its chest to prevent lung development. i'm trying to extinguish the human race one fetus at a time.
my real patient is dying. very quickly. like i wouldn't advise her to buy any green bananas. the fetus is nothing more than a parasite at this point. removing it is an instant cure.
see you get it. she'll listen to you.
you let this woman refuse to terminate you're helping her commit suicide. as her doctor my recommendation is against suicide.
then she'd be an idiot.
it isn't.
wow. if the ass kisser won't agree with you you must be even wronger than i thought.
so her theory is that our patient's liver problems were just a giant coincidence.
brown-noser.
oh look. sticking up for your girlfriend. who says chivalry's dead?
be patient. she's going through all of us. she'll get that jungle fever eventually. [cameron glares at house.]
you love him? [chase and cameron each give him a look.]
what worked?
cab's on its way. i have to finish packing. [he starts to close the door. she pushes it open.]
helps to know they're idiots.
you're not objective. but you're not an idiot. [he takes the film and holds it to the light.] his lungs are still two weeks away from being viable.
these tissue buds are new. could indicate bronchopulmonary sequestration or diaphragmatic eventration.
could be lung lesions. ccam.
move. [he motions for cuddy to back up so he can lock the door.]
somebody had to save our boss' rotundous ass. latest mri of the sloan fetus.
thanks. got that multiple choice all worked out. the question is how do we pick between a b c d and none of the above.
what would we do if this patient were not just a tadpole. say it was an actual person.
thanks for playing along. pretend that it's a one-pound adult. forget the mom forget the womb the placenta. how would we get a better look at what's in the lungs?
[makes whining eheheheh sound.] you can't just shoot everything down chase. you're not me. collaborate.
how do we get a fetus to breathe in a radioactive isotope? idiot.
let's do that. [he starts to leave stopping next to cuddy.] you're the one who insists we treat it like a person. i'll put it back when i'm done. [he leaves.]
me again. your friendly neighborhood belly-squirter. [he hangs his cane from the iv pole and opens emma's gown over her belly and sits in bedside chair.] we're going to do open fetal surgery. open the uterus cut out the fetus so we can look around. i know you can't talk so i need you to look petrified if you consent.
[out of corner of his mouth but at regular volume] don't lower expectations if you want them to do something.
you all here for the fetal surgery? because we are way over capacity.
mind each other's personal space. there are sharp implements in the room. like this one. [he holds up scalpel and starts to incise emma's belly.] uterus is fully exposed.
have you never sucked beer out of the bottom of a keg? where'd you go to college? gimme that.
sorry. i just realized i forgot to tivo alien. [he attaches paper presumably the pulse ox to the baby's hand.]
position him for the incision.
it's the mom. she's in v-fib.
looks like asystole. paddling's not going to do anything.
we're going to lose them both. clamp! the surgery's not doing this to her the fetus is. [he starts to clamp the umbilical cord.]
the only way to save her is to cut away the anchor holding her down. [he starts to cut the cord.]
just like that.
what's amazing is how blond your baby's hair is.
you know the thing in your belly that tried to kill you.
[stares at her] any pain?
you can only get out of bed to pee poo or shower. and absolutely no sex. so stop flirting with me. [he takes a vicodin.]
um. if you call being born twice normal. [he gets up to leave.]
don't thank me. i would have killed the kid.
i'm off the clock.
[pulls something out] first class ticket to vancouver island.
yeah. who doesn't like canadians?
you didn't need to apologize.
you screwed up.
you let your maternal instinct get the best of you and nearly killed two people. in a case like this you terminate and mom lives 10 times out of ten. you do what you did mom and baby both die 9.9 times out of 10.
no. it's smaller. exactly 9.8 smaller. always is always will be.
antique vintner's cane. cost me nine hundred dollars.
ah! that explains the vintner's reference.
[looks back the noisy kid] only if he's stuck in a bottle of zinfandel.
[has had enough turns to the mother] give her twenty milligrams of antihistamine. could save her life. 'cause he she doesn't shut up i'll kill her.
you only forced me to deliver a speech not goodwill.
huh may have been short but it had girth!
i was hungry.
i was thirsty.
i was lonely.
[standing] don't worry i'll take care of it.
[sitting comfortably in his seat] no mistake. just arranged for a five hundred dollar fare reduction. expense problem solved.
thank you.
[pulling out a menu] uh no. think i will switch to the... syrah!
he's drunk.
yes!
i'll go get her.
did you really think i was gonna leave you stuck back here for eighteen hours?
go on enjoy. with the vicodin and the wine i can sleep anywhere.
wasn't supposed to be funny-ha-ha.
wow! we just attended a symposium on pandemics and you've run right into one on the flight home. talk about a small world.
[reassuring with a mind-your-own-business tone] no!
someone has a hangover. [to cuddy] he had a snoot-load of bloody marys before dinner.
it is also textbook allergic reaction to... pollen... peanuts semen-stained polyester blanket he's lying on.
[cutting her off stern] we don't! you misunderstood. dr. cuddy just meant that... he might feel less nauseous if he was facing a different direction. she didn't mean to panic a planeload of people.
he'll be fine. [to keo] i'm a doctor too.
korean male mid-thirties 5' 9 one-sixty bald scar on the right side of his jaw medic alert bracelet on his left wrist indicating that he is allergic to at least penicillin.
good point. [to keo] on the other hand i am a board-certified specialist in infectious disease. she assigns parking spaces.
no. he's all better.
[pointing towards the aisle] look that way.
'cause you're gonna throw up and i don't want it on me.
give her a banana. monkey see monkey barf. you smell vomit...
okay wasn't expecting that.
i need help!
need someone to talk to.
[to the kid] can you say [bad australian accent] croikey myte?
perfect. now no matter what i say you'll agree with me okay?
nicely done.
you... disagree with everything i say.
[shrugging] that's close enough.
and you... get morally outraged with everything i say.
wow you guys are good. [back to work writing] we are looking for the simplest way to explain these symptoms.
[guessing] organophosphate poisoning. some international flights spray pesticides.
no worries. _we_ think it's pesticide poisoning.
dramamine overdose.
jet lag.
deep vein thrombosis.
food poisoning. what was on the menu?
[ignoring her] sea bass seafood kebabs?
he had the sea bass. please tell me she had the kebabs.
ciguatera poisoning. it's an instant onset toxin. [looking at the air whiteboard] symptoms include e all of the above. 's only found in certain kinds of tropical gamefish such as...? [motions to air chase to finish]
[to cuddy] make sure you get a resum<e9> from him.
[over pa system deep polite-sounding voice] helloo?
[over pa system] ladies and gentlemen i have a brief announcement concerning your meals. if you ate the sea bass or the seafood kebabs you have ingested a dangerous toxin.
[over pa system] however if you proceed to the restrooms both on your left or right or rear of the plane and vomit as soon as possible the toxic effect should be minimal.
[can't resist over pa system] thank you and have a pleasant flight.
[nods] i know.
good news is all the pilots are red-meat men. although i was kind of looking forward to landing this puppy myself.
[removing his headphones] ow. that makes sense. first class ate before coach. he digested more of his food before he threw up.
[looks behind at peng then back to cuddy] we're not gonna see ataxia.
no it's just hard to show clumsiness when you're lying moaning in the fetal position.
[to peng loudly] hey! s... [removes the noseplugs] stand up!
nobody speak korean on this flight?
i know how to ask him if his sister's over eighteen. i don't think that's gonna help. [even louder to peng] hey! stand up! [mimicking standing up] stand... up!
don't play the cripple card with me.
it's definitely ataxia. it's definitely a rash.
thin leg. it's been in a cast.
so it could be radiation poisoning.
from the x-rays they took of it.
unless those x-rays were performed in wankoff north korea by a third-grade dropout with a 50-year-old imager. [pointing to peng's bald head] which accounts for the absence of fur. radiation poisoning accounts for all the symptoms.
[has enough of her] you're pregnant.
explains the nausea abdominal pains fever. and why you're stuffing your 36cs into a 34b bra.
puppps. common pregnancy rash.
you a virgin?
you're pregnant. mazel tov. [to cuddy] let's get him into the chair.
i believe in statistics. two hundred passengers on the plane.
ten should be gay two should be with child and one should be incredibly annoying with an extra ass chromosome.
[to keo] get him some iodized salt to protect his thyroid. i'm going back...
[looks up] i'm trying to listen to you now so shut up. [listens into her chest again] heart's fine. [can't resist mentioning] breasts are firm.
tell them there's nothing to worry about.
yeah.
tell them there's nothing to worry about. gimme a flash light.
i'll call down to the pharmacy.
then get me a lab. [now smelling her stomach] pseudomonas smell yeasty. staph smells musty. some liver diseases smell of ammonia.
[results of the smell-test] citrusy on the nose with a blush of toasted coconut.
need to get a better look at your rash.
fine shall i go with lifeguard cuddy or mother superior cuddy?
nothing...
nothing... [addressing everybody] c'mon nobody has no meds.
open your mouth.
[standing upright] where is the acyclovir?
well you'd better get some. you've got herpes.
what do you know? he's got some. this must be your lucky day.
[loudly] this is for real! people are sick! some of us will be deplaning in body bags unless you cough up.
[as the pillowcase starts to fill up] thank you. thank you. thank you. god bless you.
lotta apples not many candy bars.
three caps of augmentin.
he's allergic to penicillin.
if he has a severe reaction ten epi pens won't save him. [holds out the pills] you take the pills.
he's a guy who doesn't speak english.
[arguing] if it's not meningitis we're risking his life and flushing meds down the toilet.
[nods] sounds like a plan. oh except for the part where we don't have an lp needle. oh and the shaking of the plane means i'll probably pierce his spinal cord and cripple him for life but [shrugs] i mean it totally sounds like a plan.
shut up. don't get hysterical.
[to air cameron] hold this.
[over pa system somberly] ladies and gentlemen we have a passenger with a confirmed case of bacterial meningitis.
[over pa system] and even if we land as soon as possible the passenger will not survive. it's very likely that some of you have been infected as well.
[over pa system] as soon as you start feeling symptoms we need to isolate you in the first class cabin.
[over pa system rattling off the symptoms] fever rash...
[over pa system continuing]... nausea and in the late stages...
[over pa system]... tremor in the left hand.
break out the bubbly. [yells] yo! listen up!
[over pa system] bad news is you have an illness. the good news is it's not meningitis.
[over pa system] it's not fatal. it's just embarrassing. it's conversion disorder. more commonly known as mass hysteria.
it happens often in high anxiety situations especially to women.
i know it sounds sexist but science says you're weak and soft [chuckling] what can i do?
yeah look at her hand. shaking left hand. what is that a symptom of? not meningitis. it's basically a symptom of nothing. put the idea into their heads and watched it happen. same thing that peng cruelly did with the puking and the rash.
your mind controls your body. it thinks you're sick it makes you sick.
[over pa system] if-if you'll all just calm down your symptoms will soon go away. and to facilitate this process your flight crew will move through the cabin with a complimentary bar service.
[over pa system] thank you and as always have a pleasant flight.
still feel like puking?
lp was negative. i came up with an alternate theory and i tested it. couldn't have done it without you. rage is a symptom of mass hysteria. just one more thing to clean up. peng set off the mass hysteria. what set off peng?
yeah. and i haven't the faintest idea why.
it's when you're molested by a priest's cousin.
worried they'll make you look bad? could be symptomatic of head trauma cerebral infarction or intercranial hemorrhage. thoughts?
too long to wait. his head's as smooth as a baby's bottom. no bumps so i think we can rule out head trauma. so you gotta choose between what's left. clog or leak?
not so far.
first of all he apparently speaks a language that no one else speaks. which makes talking up the ladies a little rough.
condoms. he has focal limb paralysis.
no by cocaine. was inside the condom is now spreading through his digestive tract.
i think he's a jackass. we're gonna have to operate.
you're gonna need to hold him down. he's not gonna like this.
fits the symptoms.
[gloving up] pretty much.
oh aren't you clever?
[motioning to air chase] c'mon.
[to peng] well i know you're pretty much [looks at air cameron] unconscious but as it's been pointed out to me pretty much doesn't mean squat.
okay hold him tight.
the faster we do this the less likely he is to die of shock.
tighter.
do that again. ease off then press down.
[to cuddy] pressure on his joints relieves his pain.
wrong again. [looking around] where's his wallet?
scuba certification card.
yeah. you also have a receipt from tekong's scuba rental dated yesterday?
went diving yesterday. like an idiot he surfaced too quickly. like a bigger idiot he boarded a flight which is pressurized to 8000 feet above sea level. low pressure is killing him. tell the pilot to dive until we can club baby seals out of the window.
and get him some oxygen.
i saved your life. you owe me.
but you didn't know that. you owe me.
your mind convinced your body to get a rash photophobia and vomit. how d'you know it wouldn't have shut down your cold cold heart next?
[complaining] you're mean.
you're extremely welcome.
[intrigued] are you handicap-accessible?
[quietly to himself] oh for god's sakes. [cuddy walks through the door] stop! don't move. the way the soft evening light catches your eyes. [cuddy smiles] the gentle caress of the dusk on her hair as you turn around and leave my office without giving me that file.
boring.
less boring or grandma's been held back a few years.
then get her into surgery.
tricky procedure. it's going to take all night. [house takes the file and throws it on his desk.] sleep tight. [starts to leave.]
fascinating but since the pathology on the pericardium won't be back until after they remove it. [cuddy gets in front of house and stops him moving by putting the file on his chest. house sighs and takes the file.]
[to the ducklings.] round up the usual suspects. amyloidosis sarcoidosis hemochromatosis... heck go wild do all the osises. [ducklings don't look too pleased to be staying late.] [to cuddy.] all taken care of sleep tight. [leaves.]
you guys are idiots.
no. because you stayed up all night doing exactly what i told you to do and have nothing to show for it.
i asked you what 2 + 2 equals and a day later you tell me not 25.
nice work.
work smart not hard. [chase smiles at cameron.] find out which fungus biopsy a lymph node. take employee of the month with you.
i know. [walks into his office.]
so what does the double vision tell us?
so we're back to square one.
yes 2+2 doesn't equal 12 or 16 either.
did you look at her knees?
those knobby things in the middle of her legs any scars or scabs?
well most 6 year olds hurt themselves a lot. crash their bikes climb trees bungee jump.
because running around outside hurts.
most 6 year olds are not familiar with the phrase 'my joints feel inflamed'. so 2+2 equals?
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. we're checking her ana to confirm and giving her steroids to fix her vision. some idiot gave me two tickets for a play tonight. saved his life apparently worth 186 dollars. [house walks into exam room one revealing a guy sitting on the table] [to the patient] sorry had to take a leak.
it's an exam room. what did you think i was doing?
well it'd be stupid to do it in here. there's a patient in here. [wilson rolls his eyes.] [to eddie the patient.] you been drinking more?
[to wilson who is still standing in the doorway] guy's peeing all the time. play. interested?
i'm not going.
you thought this was a date? [turns back to the patient.] any other symptoms?
[shows wilson the tickets.] you want the tickets or not?
it's a play. dudes only go to plays if they're dragged by women they're hoping to see naked.
maybe there's someone you want to see naked.
[turns back to the patient.] any fever?
anything in your pee other than pee?
i'm going to need a urine sample.
yeah that last one wasn't a question. you might have diabetes...
we have bathrooms.
where can you pee?
or she has another stroke. arthritis heart disease why can't this kid act her age?
well thick blood explains the stroke could also have caused an autoimmune response which would explain the jra kicking into gear. but what explains the thick blood?
what explains the lack of oxygen?
hey! don't make me turn the hose on you two. chase is right. you two go check the house see if dad's a closet marlboro man.
by making you do your job? does seem kind of cruel doesn't it? take along a carbon monoxide detector to check for leaks and you [points to foreman] start her on hydroxyurea to control her red blood cell production. take out a merck manual medieval edition tell you how to drain a pint or two so she doesn't clot again.
well this sucks. either it's abuse or it's not abuse. which means either it's a symptom or it's completely irrelevant. either way we have to waste half a day figuring out which. full physical exam. look for bruises we may have missed check her mouth and do a vaginal exam.
never is just reven spelt backwards. [hands the t-shirt to foreman and leaves.]
yes.
i'm going to ask you for some blood.
to see if your answer will be 'i can't bleed in public'. this wasn't your urine was it?
usual reason is because you're on steroids.
duh. the second favourite reason is because you're on drugs.
i am. third favourite reason is <U+0097> you have insurance but your friend eggs benedict doesn't. so eggs describes a list of symptoms and you repeat them to a doctor. which is particularly stupid because this is a free clinic.
my work here is done. [starts to leave.]
no you're pregnant.
she might have been abused. that's horrifying. why are you wearing extra concealer under your eyes?
dad consented to the exam which means it's not the dad. how late were you out last night?
[loudly.] panty hamster get a spin on its wheel?
what play?
you're trying to have sex with cuddy.
you took her to a play. you only take women to plays because...
ok then why did you take her to a play?
a friend with a squish mitten.
blasphemer! she's not a friend of the opposite sex she's a different species. [takes a fry.] she's an administrator. she's going to eat your head after she's done.
[shocked.] seriously?
[not convinced.] yes you did.
[shocked.] seriously?
it's not her blood.
apparently forgot to sneak the shaving cream.
excellent argument. [to foreman] it's a tumour.
if the tumour's not in her brain it's in her reproductive tract. get an mri. [gets up.]
waste your time? wouldn't recognise you if you didn't.
they printed my letter. [pays for the magazine and starts to walk off. wilson runs up behind him.]
of course i was. what are we talking about? [holds up the magazine.] they printed my letter.
you want to see her naked. [they walk over to the doors to the clinic.]
just thanking you for the play. you see some people fell an emotion called gratitude.
i suspected. explains how you knew who they were from.
no i think they're the hugs. i think os are the kisses.
i'll miss you. you were a good friend. [house walks into the clinic towards cuddy. holds up the magazine.] they printed my letter. how was the play mrs. lincoln?
he's just a little freaked.
i sent him flowers. [smiles. cuddy looks confused.]
[answers.] somebody better be dying.
and i care because?
bees or monkeys yes sociopaths no.
he's not a sociopath.
he's acting logically. he's got a crush on you. he's being aggressive about it. not just regular aggressive. he's out of his mind on hormones aggressive.
better figure out what's killing the girl cause her brother's got it too.
[to foreman] you went home? [foreman nods. house is pleased.] good for you. delegate.
making it all the more impressive.
that's ridiculous. you're way too skinny to be menstruating.
pull all of her medical records find any similarities to our patients and punch the little brat on the nose so he doesn't have a stroke like his sister. [walks off towards his office.]
if she gets one in her brain or heart she's dead. [turns to cameron and chase.] no pressure though.
yes that would make complete sense if they had one.
two siblings same condition. its got to be genetic or environmental. if you add in same time' and we're back to just environmental.
[mimicking cameron.] just because we haven't found anything yet.
no! [cameron stops.] we have no evidence.
[interrupting.] most likely means she wants to root around inside your little girl's brain without any guarantee that it will work that's why she's holding off on doing your son.
who else visits these kids?
you got a girlfriend?
school?
nanny?
yet. it took your son twice as long to develop symptoms as your daughter maybe the other kids are just slow.
she does this and your daughter will need hormone replacement therapy for the rest of her life.
and isn't that every parents dream to have a kid grow up to be relatively normal.
[whispers in cameron's ear.] you did not just play the dead husband card. [to deran.] my wife died because she signed a consent form that i didn't want her to sign. died.
how did you know?
that the other kids weren't sick. you've been here for 4 days.
right...
[smiles.] do you have hair on your special place?
i'm a doctor. two of your kids are sick and i need to know why.
i think you're dating their dad.
no but i don't really care why he didn't. i just need to know how often you go to their house and what you bring.
shampoos fancy soaps kids get in your bag?
lip wax?
[grabs her hand.] mani-pedi?
women get a wax as part of a whole self-indulgent beauty ritual <U+0097> pedicure steam cucumber masks. no one runs out at lunch just to get a lip wax unless you woke up looking like yosemite sam.
it's always the dad.
excess facial hair in women it's a clear sign of hormonal imbalance exactly what the little kiddies have.
there's something wrong in your pants.
never occurred to you to get a prescription instead of some penis pumper loaded with testosterone?
but you have.
30% of our waste is excreted through our skin. that sounds high. that's why you stink after eating garlic. jack waters his beanstalk everyday for a week and he's oozing bean curd out of his pores for a month. every time you gave the little tykes a hug you gave them a dose of testosterone small for you but more then their little bodies could handle.
uh-huh.
you'll be floppy they'll be fine. [looks at jasper teasing lucy by not letting her get her bunny.] he'll still be eight. [pops a pill.]
[takes off his glasses.] you ok?
[puts the magazine down.] talk to cuddy?
just... be straight with her.
[trying not to smile.] in what way?
[still trying fairly successfully to keep a straight face.] you sure she feels...
cameron would tell you to say how you feel. me i'd get her drunk.
[struggling to keep a straight face he has to cover his mouth with his hand.] that's... a bold move cuddy likes bold. yeah your right if you spoke you'd say something stupid.
[laughs.] well you made a compelling argument.
yes because you took her to a play [wilson throws his arms up in the air.] because actually you do want to march down there and kiss her.
yes you do.
[shocked.] seriously?
night wilson.
give him a break it's may - october at worst.
may is when things start to get hot.
guy gets a little something-something couple of kids have to die circle of life.
[long pause.] i got tickets to a play...
loss of free will. i like it. maybe we can get thomas aquinas in for a consult. what caused the t.i.a.?
second ex-mrs. wilson wanting money?
market's doing badly she wants money.
she wants <U+0096>
pool boy?
no longer interested.
i asked cuddy to a play thursday. [wilson laughs.]
she said she was busy.
i asked her as a test.
a lot about bondage. she's busy for me but not for you. she's not interested in the play qua play she's interested in you.
you cannot see her socially. you're leading her on!
so all this enjoying is an act of charity?
what's life without the ability to make stupid choices? she needs her free will. find out why her brain froze before she can't decide to make her next breath. find the toxin run your bubble study. you won't find anything but i'll get the office to myself. there's a lot of porn piling up on the internet. it doesn't download itself!
you like hockney?
hot stuff were the venezuelan pictures.
yes but you have no idea how it's a trick.
you're going to a gallery to see venezuelan pictures that don't exist but you won't go to a play with me. why?
is that why you said no?
i'm not safe? cool. james wilson is never a safe choice.
sure you say that now. he always marries them in the end!
they're not supposed to get past the bouncers.
the only question is what kind of autoimmune.
it always matters what kind.
treatment is always boring! diagnosis is <U+0096>
yeah got it. start her on steroids.
told you. that was boring. i gotta go out.
wilson's got a date.
hey i need a condo. didn't you and wilson have your first date around here?
really? he's my best friend.
oh. not quite as close to here as i remembered.
absolutely not.
since i wasn't paying attention back then what was it like dating him?
love it. so he'd say it's not a date but then he'd jump you.
did you just compare wilson to a tampon?
i cook a lot. go on.
hey hey we're here to talk real estate not wilson. so you're saying if you actually had sex before you connected emotionally you'd have gotten over it.
right.
i don't usually put out on the first date but i gotta say that is a rad move. get her consent. start the radiation.
i'll get her consent.
patient doesn't like foreman. i'm interested.
fatigue hair loss possibility of damage to the lungs infertility. all possible side effects of radiation. why don't you like dr. foreman?
how good is he?
there's a small possibility of leukemia some time in the future. hardly worth mentioning. you can't say he's better than he is if you don't know how good he is.
i am. you might also get cataracts. sign here.
we're saving your life. we're that good. sign there.
would you rather a pencil or a pen? who's the better james bond sean connery or daniel craig? now you see that's not even a decision.
good lord how do you still have teeth?
you're an addict. i'm saving you from yourself.
if i can figure out where you keep going wrong then i can nip this cuddy thing in the bud before she becomes the fourth ex-mrs. wilson.
you have to have sex with cuddy.
[loudly] huh?! [normally] yeah. she also said if she slept with you before she liked you then it would have been easier to handle when you turned into the sorry bastard that left her alone.
you think that's going to stop her? the woman's the worst realtor in new jersey.
it sounds like she's septic.
how much?
do an echo to confirm it's in her heart and then i'll tell our patient that we just killed her.
i'm busy.
i'm off the market for condos.
of course he was right. he doesn't stop giving good advice just because you're divorced. he's compulsive about remaining on good terms with his exes.
no. let's keep it a mystery.
wow. did i ever waste money on that place setting.
whereas i never hurt you! i never even married you cleverly hoping to avoid moments like this one.
you keep yelling and i'll think you owe me sex.
first hector does go rug is a lame anagram. you want a better one for gregory house: huge ego sorry. second find a new career. you're never going to sell to anybody if you let them control the agenda. and third i don't owe you anything. i'm not wilson i'm not going to buy a condo just to make you feel better.
prepping for an aspiration. we still don't know what infection <U+0096>
it's not going to hurt her. well it is going to hurt her but <U+0096>
this will just take a few minutes. grab a piece of an abscess some pus <U+0096>
you really don't care why she's going to be dead.
what? what did we screw up what did we miss? i need to know.
yeah?
her bra hook.
she scratched herself with her bra hook. that's how the infection got in. staph aureus.
that and some bad decisions.
go home have a few drinks go to sleep get up tomorrow and do it tomorrow only better. if you need absolution go to a priest or give alms to the poor whatever ritual comforts you.
yeah me too.
no. and you'll do it again. to a lot of doctors this would be a once-in-a-lifetime kind of mistake. but we're not a lot of doctors. we'll save a lot more patients than the guy down the street but a few of the ones he'd save by doing what everyone else does we will lose.
because they don't lie. i can't forgive you foreman because there's nothing to forgive. [he leaves.]
that guilt is irrelevant.
can't. i've got a dog waiting at home.
[annoyed] c'mon.
[reading] not with an enlarged spleen and a fever.
[finishes writing] tell me about it. i can't even find the one i've got working for me. where is foreman?
ha! nothing like a dead patient to send you back to your choir-boy roots.
hey! you're not gonna believe what happened. wilson just killed a kid the same way you did.
five days are gonna fly by. he didn't look both ways before he nuked. [drums his cane on the ground] you done talking to your imaginary friend? because i thought maybe you could do your job.
great idea if you're looking to save exactly one kid. broad-spec will take at least a week to work. we need narrow-spec. [looks at his cane then to wilson] how old is hector?
seventeen? that's like...a hundred and nineteen in human years. why's he still alive?
that's 'cause the infection is too small. we start testing now it's like looking for a needle in a haystack. we draw blood odds are we're just gonna come up with hay. we need to grow more needles.
okay that... probably needs further explanation. we make the donor kid sicker. we freeze him we soak him break down his immune system. suddenly we're looking at some needle a camel can pass through the eye of.
true but who cares? once we know what the infection is we'll know exactly how to treat it. as long as he isn't dead yet we're cool.
waste of time. you think it's in the house. i know it's in the patient.
[beat] fine. go.
[butting in] ever get caught in the rain without an umbrella? that's all we're talking about here. sign the form.
we're not gm! no recalls no rebates. any more questions while your son's life slips away?
yes! [to wilson] sorry your patient. you tell them.
all you had to do was say yes i do. god knows that's a phrase you've used often enough in your life.
that's not enough for you. you need them to feel good about saying yes.
[the argument-winner] i'm taller.
the only value of that trust is you can manipulate them.
giving parents the chance to make a bad choice was a bad choice.
one they'd regret at their son's funeral.
adorable! please i thought you were dignified.
come on how am i not supposed to make that joke? the best thing about big honkin' gonads -
mind if i ask why?
in case we're wrong?
fine. go.
this is perfect.
okay. perfect is too strong a word. but it's very very good. now we know where the infection is. all we gotta do is remove the valve id the infection target and destroy.
he'll be heart-broken on account of his dead brother.
we don't have to. we have to clear his marrow. after the surgery harvest the marrow marinate it in the targeted antibiotic simmer and serve.
[nods] fine. go. in fact let's all go.
[not looking at up from his magazine] wilson's right foreman's wrong and your shirt is way too revealing for the office.
i didn't.
tried to cut him some slack.
i think he's got the yips.
steve blass scott norwood david duval. all got the yips. great athletes. lost their confidence and immediately started sucking.
mm-hmm! four days then he's fired. you don't get better from the yips.
if you want both kids to live it's the only choice.
[cynically] maybe they'll ride it here on a unicorn.
he won't be able to play baseball. but that doesn't make him a cripple.
that was awesome!
i gotta start pretending to care.
no you didn't. you did exactly what she told me not to do. you're completely in the clear.
you've gotta be kidding me. you're actually upset. you just said what you believed.
because it lessens your guilt if things go wrong. you're not protecting your choices.
you're soothing your conscience.
[calling out after him] am i blushing?
[into phone] yeah?
[into phone] you woke me up to tell me that you're lazy.
[into phone] i'm tired. get to the point.
[seeing something] oh god.
[into phone mock-concern] i think hector's committed suicide.
[into phone] he took some pills.
[into phone] he ate half my stash. of course he's...
[into phone] he's stoned. i'll be right in.
cut all the way into this kid's heart and all we got was this lousy non-infectious fibrous tissue.
yeah yeah yeah.
not our fault. fibrous tissue! something is turning his healthy heart valve to gristle.
lupus and beh<e7>ets are our best bet. do an ana and a pathergy test.
my memory's not what it used to be but didn't we just rule that out eight seconds ago?
uh-huh and it has the obvious advantage of making us right all along. a little disadvantage of making big brother dead.
[pointedly] it fits.
that's your argument? it sucks for them?
six out of six is two better than four out of six right? i mean i know two is so small but since it means that he's gonna get graft vs. host disease the marrow will attack his body and he'll die a painful death. [to the others] find out what autoimmune it is.
wanna catch a movie?
i know a place. although i wouldn't recommend wearing those shoes.
is that a riddle?
i must have left it off.
i think he hopped upon to the bathroom counter.
no! it's your damn dog! [holding up the top of the cane] he chews everything! i was missing a file. found paper in his stool. an original sun record '78 elvis recording - gone! who the hell chews vinyl? he's vindictive. [beat] and he's had a good long life. it's his time.
i just tripped over wilson's self-righteousness.
[cold-shoulders the helping hand] what d'you got?
hmm. did i mention my concerns about four being less than six? wilson's first wife ignored a similar issue. of course that time it was only fatal to their marriage.
[getting up] do it alphabetically. we're not doing that damn transplant. [looks around] where's foreman?
did he also explain what sort of pain your son will experience if he gets graft vs. host
apparently he didn't explain it vividly enough. let me give it a whack.
no! you screwed us.
what is the point in being able to control people if you won't actually do it? 's like training a dog and then letting him go on your rug. which by the way...
[arguing loudly] you don't explain chances and probabilities. you lie to them. you tell them foreman's a moron - which isn't even much of a lie right now.
i got no problem with what foreman did.
[mad] well he did what he thought was right! you on the other hand sucked out! when the decision really mattered you didn't have the guts to tell them what to do! 'f that kid dies it's because foreman was wrong and because you're a coward!
[top of his voice] oh goodness! i've left my door open! my poor dog must've run away and been hit by a car or... truck. [hopeful] or train.
[even more hopeful] or an anvil.
[oh joy...] thank god. you're still here. [top of voice again] he's still here!
where's my stereo?
[deep voice] hello?
paying for my new cane. it was your dog.
apparently. showed up.
hey.
[beat] i'm sorry.
you're pathetic. i didn't actually mean that.
no i didn't. to infinity.
[into phone] yeah. [listens] when? [listens] what did the lab say? [listens] uh-huh?
[to wilson] fewer bitchin' choices. [into phone] okay.
what do you got in bitchin'?
[taking off the hat] that was cameron. the kid that wasn't all that sick is now all that sick. he's bleeding out of his ears.
down.
his body's not making new blood cells. his bone marrow's crashing.
it's a little too marilyn manson in a retirement home. [returns it; to wilson] meds are suppressing his bone marrow.
[impressed] very cool.
penis canes are murder. [hands it back points] let me see the one on the end.
[to wilson] you need to stop matty's meds. the marrow rebounds it's the meds. if it doesn't it's an infection.
maybe i was wrong about which kid's gonna die.
bitchiiiin'.
[swinging it up] makes it look like i'm going fast. now how's our dying kids?
[to him] feeling guilty?
always a comfort. okay what's the other kid's status?
god is done with nick. we know what he has. we know how to treat it. we're doing it. it's not working. life is for the living.
cultures still aren't growing anything.
because you did the right thing. convinced the parents to treat the kid. all you did was yank the weed out of the ground. it's roots are still killing your beautiful lawn. we just can't see it. and if we can't see it we don't know what it is. and if we don't know what it is we can't kill it. you gotta wait for it to grow back again. [sighs] now his soil is arid. so he and his brother will be dead by the time...
what if the dandelion was in fertile soil? [turns to the others] what if we take the roots from matty and put them in nick? turn the kid into a petri dish? only better. a petri dish can't tell you when it hurts.
leukemia kid's got no defenses.
but before he does the infection will spread fast. fast enough to tell us what it is. in time to save his brother.
yes.
nick is gonna die either way.
graft vs. host is not gonna go away because of nick's sunny smile and positive outlook.
he's being torn apart from the inside out. his pain's gonna get worse and worse until he dies. you're just dragging it out. [beat] you have only one decision to make - to leave here with one dead son or two.
tell 'em.
patients' parents apparently don't want to be parents anymore. [to chase] you're a sneaky bastard. any ideas how we get around this?
[disappointed] that's hardly sneaky.
ten thousand possible infections. at least twenty minutes per test. take you approximately eight years.
he's timid. testing blindly is not gonna save this kid.
wow he sure is hurting.
[pulling out his scrip book] if i had a nickel for every time i heard that.
pharmacy's on the ground floor.
it's not gonna help. you're dying. nothing's gonna change that. drugs'll just make you go easier.
fourteen years on the planet. most of them spent suffering. dying before you even got to drive a car take off a girl's bra drink a beer. believe me there's plenty you haven't done. really good stuff. [beat] must make it hard to believe in god or... fairness a larger purpose. [beat] but your life doesn't have to be meaningless. you can save your brother.
how much heat are you taking from the parents?
welcome back foreman.
tell him how proud i am?
pride and shame only apply to people we have a vested interest in not employees.
good point. [gets up] but first i gotta tell cameron and chase that they're violating god's will.
... he did a good job? he knows it. adults don't need adult conversations. just like i don't need this conversation.
obviously not.
[sarcastically] bad dog!
why would i want to keep him?
[shrugging] accidents happen.
candy?
good boy.
[bites] good boy.
[sighs] you did good.
well maybe i'm biased but--
because you knew it was right. you knew you were saving his brother.
[smirks] you're not. you've been like me since you were eight years old.
[smiling.] morning. this is funny [holds up his coffee and starts to read the side.] people don't...
[comes back out.] good morning.
[comes back out.] you guys get to the point where the blood didn't come from anywhere?
not that much blood.
no trauma. she kicked the other guy's ass.
if you can tell me how blood can mysteriously appear in a
[closing the door.] feel free to speculate amongst yourselves.
he's afraid of turning into me.
that's it? you're not going to tell him that we're a family and families don't abandon each other?
no.
so where were we?
not the case the speculation. the palace intrigue. the rising self-doubts. did foreman get a promotion?
personally i can't believe i've had the same three employees for three years.
yes. life goes on. look at the eager beaver combing his hair.
foreman go do a stress echo test to see if he's right. cameron check out the dorm and redo the er labs. [ducklings leave.] [calling out after them.] i'll get going on foreman's farewell party. everybody good with a mermaid under the stars theme? [they all give him a weird look and then continue leaving.]
i think there's an infection.
i think there's an infection. blood goes where it's needed. infection likes nice wet places her lungs. start treatment. all that cool stuff for bacterial fungal and atypical infections. get a lung biopsy i want to see the little bugger up close. [foreman leaves chase starts to follow but changes his mind.]
he wants to breed llamas. [starts to walk towards wilson's office.]
[takes the coffee and sits down.] no one writes tamoxifen like you.
foreman resigned.
it's okay. no biggie.
he said he didn't want to end up like me. i had a brilliant retort. can't remember what it was at the moment.
good point. can i resign? [wilson yawns.] what's up with that?
you yawned. i just told you something interesting so you're not bored. it's 11 o'clock in the morning and you're drinking coffee so you're not tired. i didn't yawn so it's not a mirror-neuron reaction. which leaves symptom vasovagal issue maybe a heart problem?
i'm ok with foreman leaving.
sorry. i yawned because i was trying to communicate boredom.
how much do you think it would cost to make him want to be like me? [silence.] thanks for the coffee. [leaves.]
she is fine.
past tense.
from the antibiotics for the infection.
well then you screwed up the biopsy.
well if i'm wrong then so is her body because it obviously thinks she's got an infection or it wouldn't have gotten better from the antibiotics. what is pandiculation symptomatic of?
lets say yes.
lets say no.
oh crap.
shut up. i think she may not have an infection. you better deal with her before she crashes.
[looking at the chart.] there's something called blued in the pleural effusion. [looks closer.] oh it's not blued it's blood. which is great. well not for her but for me. because it means i think it's an infection.
can't ignore the blood because it's a minority can you foreman?
great. go tell her she's got one of those. or you could tell her we haven't given her enough antibiotics for her infection. double the dose and check her lungs.
[leaving.] on the outside. she needs an arteriogram.
what isn't these days? [shuts the door. points to steve's girlfriend honey.] you sure you want to be here for this?
of course. the toilet can be a lonely place. drop your pants i'll suit up.
huh?
yes i could tell from the cool toe-loop sandals.
you're welcome. [they smile at each other.] and the natural fibre clothing i assume means some kind of vegetarian denomination?
well whatever floats your poop. and you've been together how long? 6 months?
because after 6 months poop love fades and if you've been together shorter than that then... i'll explain right after this break. [leaves.]
three 10-milligram pills of your finest amphetamines. [signs the book.]
what if the clear arteriogram is significant?
i think there's an infection.
unless her body can't finish off the fight <U+0097> maybe goes a couple of rounds then gives up.
maybe its name is foreman. [looks at foreman no reaction.] c'mon... where's that smile? that laugh that makes the whole world sunny without contributing to global warming? [chase laughs they look at him he stops and looks down embarrassed.] maybe she's missing a protein.
you can't have tested for every protein i can think of at least one you can't test for at all.
maybe we can get ahead of the game. manage each symptom as it comes up. give her five miserable years instead of six miserable months.
so we isolate the cells that are yummiest for it. stick a needle in her eye. [takes the pills and goes back into the exam room.] [to steve.] you're cheating on honey.
oh yes you are.
[confused.] well i was going to say relax but oddly enough you seem pretty relaxed already.
he's not cheating with another woman he's cheating with another food group.
his floaters float because they're full of fat. probably had a big cheeseburger for lunch.
i'm accomplished. i'm funny. can i have whatever i want? [steve is shocked. honey smiles.]
you rang?
i bought you an espresso. [wilson checks his pocket for his wallet and gives house a weird look.] you've been buying me coffee for a couple of weeks i thought i'd pay you back. [holds out the coffee on his right to wilson.] with one.
[laughs.] why are you suspicious?
[laughs again.] what you think i spat in yours?
i stacked them. [puts the left one on top of the right and lifts it up to demonstrate then puts the left one down again and holds out the right one to wilson.]
what do you think of me hiring a nutritionist instead of a neurologist? i mean they sound almost the same.
don't cheapen this. we had an in-depth conversation about proteins and fats. i was about to examine her boyfriend's rectum.
got her number.
but with the wisdom of a much younger woman.
several times. we laugh...
and that will be depressing. but it will only make me appreciate all the good things that i do have. [house goes into the diagnostics office wilson leaves.]
i think there's an infection. just because the cells in her eye aren't dead yet doesn't mean they're working.
because if it had been positive it would have proved i was right.
[smiling.] that's the beauty of the test.
absolutely. [ducklings start to leave.] as long as you're scanning you mind having a boo for an abscess or something caused by an infection? [ducklings leave.]
grody.
who cares? her head blew up. how cool is that?
[turns the camera on cameron.] meaning you don't think it's an infection and you'd be right if you weren't wrong. [puts the camera back on the open head.]
she's got infections that come and go which means...
good guess but no! means either she's got a leprechaun in her colon which is playing with the doggie door letting bacteria in and out or... she got complement factor-h deficiency. [puts the camera on foreman.]
i'm saving a woman's life. [puts the camera on himself.] i'm saving a woman's life. [camera back on the head.] actually i'm diagnosing her. technically i'm diagnosing her with something that's going to kill her but other than that i'm saving her life. [turns the camera off.]
you can't explain transudative pleural effusion with giant cell arteritis. you'd need three whiteboards and 100 different coloured markers.
if you're wrong and you give her steroids she dies now. foreman want to run down how it feels to go with your gut and kill a person? you get into the whole spiralling out of control and self-doubt resigning thing. [to chase.] do it. worst that can happen is you quit. cameron want to explain to the parents why you'll be holding paddles while he's doing it? because if her heart goes boom' it'll boom' right away. [leaves.]
my patient's about to have a heart attack. [smiles.] it's going to be massive!
[pulls out some money.] can you do me a favour?
is bile an emotion? cause i can definitely feel something here [pushes his gut.] get me some liquorice. [shoves the money in the top of her pants.] this is going to be the best heart attack of all time. [cuddy takes the money and starts to leave.] oh! wait wait wait wait. [cuddy comes back.] she's going to shock her. [cameron looks at the monitors then puts the paddles away the dad shakes chase's hand who looks relieved. house looks disappointed.]
yes... i did but only because you didn't trust me! your best friend.
amphetamines aren't going to kill you. [shuts the door.]
[laughs.] well a heart attack is not going to kill you. you were in a hospital. [wilson yawns.] aha! you yawned!
i put you on uppers and you still yawned. means it's a symptom of being a big fat liar. [wilson rolls his eyes.] yawning is a side effect of some antidepressants apparently the ones you're on.
well that means it's a symptom of a cerebral tumour. you got six weeks to live. mr. well-adjusted is as messed up as the rest of us. wh-why would you keep that a secret? are you ashamed of recognising how pathetic your life is?
how long has it been personal?
yawning's recent so either you just started or you changed prescription.
they're antidepressants not anti-annoyance-ants. you'd think this would naturally come up in conversation with...
on one of those occasions when you're pompously lecturing me on what to do to fix my life.
give me. [holds out his hand.]
nope. i'm going to prove that i'm not depressed.
i wouldn't drink that. [wilson stares at him.] my leg hurt and i [points towards the bathroom. wilson puts the cup down.]
i was sleeping.
nothing! this is how regular people look when you wake them up.
huh. hus is usually caused by an infection or a protein deficiency. [sits down and starts going through his mail. by going through i mean looking at the labels and throwing them in the bin.] what coincidence i know a patient with an infection and a protein deficiency. you think it's possible there is a connection? [gets to the last letter and starts to open it.] i want to hear you say it chase. it will please me.
there were only two choices since yours was wrong mine must have been right. either that or we missed the leprechaun.
but on the bright side it confirms my diagnosis. [foreman and cameron both shake their heads house smiles.] don't you see how incredible this call was? a protein deficiency. can't be tested can't be seen. i called it based on coughing blood.
that's not my fault. she was going to die anyway. now thanks to me at least she'll know why.
i'm not telling her.
no one's telling her. not until we're sure i'm right.
seems like the humane approach. [leaves and goes into his office.]
who? the co-ed?
[thinks.] dead sophomore girl?
dad. her mother's name is mommy.
you think they're going to give a crap if i know their names? five years from now when the father's looking at photographs of his daughter graduating from high school they're not going to remember the nice black doctor who called them by their first name. [foreman starts to leave shaking his head.] you don't want to quit.
didn't sound like i said that. i'm saying that suddenly you're trying to turn me into a kinder gentler ass. because you know who you are. you figure if you can make me decent and caring then maybe there's a hope for...
i'm sorry. addie you're dying.
yes. your infections will get worse. the toxins will spill into your blood.
two days maybe less. you have a condition called...
it's a very rare protein deficiency that only...
ok. [leaves but watches through the door as addie comforts her mother. then goes back in. half laughs.] it's what's killing you. this is what's killing you. you're not interested in what's killing you?
[smiling.] what's the point in livingwithout curiosity? without craving the...
[smiling still.] it's-it's-it's like the... dark matter in the universe...
no i'm not. you can only diagnose a problem by looking at what's... [sees a reflection on himself smiling.] missing... oh god. i have to go. [leaves.]
[loudly.] 19-year-old didn't want to hear the coolest explanation of why she's going to die. [shuts the door loudly]. begged me to shut up. [turns the light on.]
amphetamine withdrawal's a bitch. she thought that i was happy.
no! i was hazy. i don't get hazy on vicodin or anything else i throw down. which means i was throwing down something i didn't know i was throwing down. which got me to wondering why didn't you give me those happy pills?
no you just didn't want me double dosing. [wilson starts looking guilty. he knows the game's up.] you dosed me! those coffees...
a dying girl thought i was happy. a moron thought i was happy. who the hell doesn't want to know why she's dying?
hazy.
hazy!
she wasn't miserable.
she was no different then she's ever been. [epiphany.] she was no different than she'd ever been.... oh god. i got to go. [leaves and slams the door behind him much to the dismay of wilson who cringes and rubs his face.]
need a minute with your daughter.
she's going to live. does that help? now get out.
get out! [parents leave house shuts the door.] you... have got leprechauns in ya. [said in an irish accent.] depression manifests in lots of different ways. some people can't get out of bed all day. others have serial relationships and become oncologists.
wrong and wrong. you tried to kill yourself by throwing down kitchen cleanser. now most normal suicidal morons would have just drank the stuff burned the hell out of their mouth and throat. painful but not deadly. but being a college-educated suicidal moron you wrapped it in gel caps or gum. [we follow the gel cap along its path down the throat and into the intestines where it dissolves and starts burning a hole.] which left no trace but burned a hole in your intestine. but the body can repair almost anything which is cool. in your case scar tissue closed up the hole but it also formed a bridge between a vein and an artery. [we see the bridge being formed.] now veins are supposed to help the intestine flush bacteria away but the bridge allowed the bacteria entrance to the artery. [we see the bacteria crossing the bridge.] where they got a free ride everywhere.
surgery to fix the bridge will take about 2 hours. psychotherapy is going to take a little longer. why'd you do it?
technically all you have to do is promise me that you wont do it again. then legally i can't tell them.
yeah sure.
your daughter tried to kill herself. that's why she's here. legally i'm supposed to keep that between me and her. which makes sense she's obviously an adult capable of her own well-reasoned decisions.
if she doesn't die in the next couple of hours yeah i'm right.
everyone has secrets.
you'll make her happy?
[nods.] might want to try some meds too. [starts to leave.]
no. [jodie is shocked. house leaves.]
sorry. surgery went a little late.
i can't discuss this with a dry mouth. what have you got there?
[to the barman.] i'm going to have a mug of peppermint tea please.
it's some kind of interview. you're judging me i'm judging you.
i'm on antidepressants because a doctor friend of mine thinks i'm miserable. i don't like them they make me hazy. i eat meat i like drugs and i'm not always faithful to the women i date.
you do realise you just skipped over several deep character flaws that most women would run screaming from?
yeah... i don't always do that either.
were you on the debating team in high school? [barman pours house's tea.] also... [picking it up.] i hate tea. [drinks it then smiles.]
i like this kid.
i know you hate him. what more do i need to know? [addressing everyone] the kid's not a clich<e9>. anybody can get into a fight after losing. it takes real creativity to beat up someone you just beat.
hold on. [closing his eyes] i'm having a moment. this... [imitates choking back a sob] this could be foreman's last time mistakenly suggesting adrenal gland tumor.
but not the personality disorder.
being a teenager excuses the odd inappropriate comment. this kid say anything appropriate? [announcing] he's having cluster headaches. probably been having them for years. question is what's causing them?
er gave him ibuprofen for the pain. useless for this pain. it could have knocked down the swelling. best bet is a vascular problem.
[turns around] normal treatment is called normal treatment because sometimes you have to use abnormal treatment. start him on blood thinners and give his noggin transcranial magnetic stimulation.
don't you dare... touch that acerbic wit.
[vo] what do you got for me this...
... fine morning?
you accusing the symptoms of lying?
wouldn't account for the personality disorder.
he's not getting aggressive and lethargic he's getting aggressive and aggressiver.
sorry. just got dizzy there. i was expecting to turn right. it's foreman's turn to be shot down.
way to think outside the box.
but no fat in the ventricles. it's cluster headaches.
good point foreman!
the treatments don't always work. symptoms never lie.
[shouting into foreman's ear] back off foreman!
if the approved treatment doesn't work we go with an unapproved treatment.
something on your mind?
because you totally can't tell.
hospital for manhattan's glitterati. big coup. your homies must be kvelling.
yes.
it wasn't me.
maybe it was ashton kutcher.
would it matter?
if the adult way doesn't work why bother with it?
you're gonna be all whiny during the differential diagnoses aren't you?
[calling after him] it wasn't me.
i only sabotage people i consider worth it.
[dramatically pointing his cane at her] you are one evil... cunning woman. it's a massive turn-on.
you girls can gossip later.
[takes a seat] you called new york mercy to have foreman's job interview killed.
[to nurse unger] when i said you girls can gossip later i was throwing you out but in a polite way.
ah you're deflecting. only i'm allowed to do that. [drinks his energy drink]
no just me. but i know something he doesn't. i didn't do it.
do you want him to leave?
were you planning on doing something?
but if he takes the job there's nothing to be done. you had to stop him.
looking for a tell. rapid eye blink twitch of the lips.
oh! almost forgot. i need to give a sixteen-year-old magic mushrooms to treat a cluster headache. is that cool?
wouldn't look that way in the court transcript. mushrooms have psilocybins that work on cluster headaches. it's either that or cutting into his brain and going on a fishing expedition.
[pretends to think] well i have now. yeah it's definitely better that the dean of medicine prescribes it instead of an unhinged doctor with a history of drug use. takes the stink off if the patient decides to put on a cape and fly off the roof.
party on garth. and don't stand in foreman's way. it's just wrong.
if you wanna curry favor with me avoid discussions of other men's testicles.
[to the nurse] thanks. [to cameron] focus on phrases like you were right about the cluster headaches.
okay what causes rage headaches personality disorder and hypogonadism?
he's mad at me.
no reason.
male genitals are controlled by the hypothalamus and pituitary gland. we're not talking about foreman anymore.
if this were an employee-owned airline in scandinavia yes. it's not lesions. his temperature would be all over the map. symptoms don't lie.
[jerks a nod] biopsy the brat's pituitary. [enters the elevator] and let the record show i was right about the cluster headaches.
which means he'll be dead long before foreman turns in his parking pass. so what causes personality disorder head pain blah-blah-blah and liver failure?
yes. also we need to figure out how symptoms yesterday can be caused by liver failure today. [steals a look at foreman]
ooh-aah! whoa!
[scolding] don't sneak up on a person like that.
well listening doesn't help me. okay. let's go with the liver and a time-machine theory. foreman what causes liver problems?
most liver damage begins with what we put in our bodies. foreman?
cuddy?
[shrugs] sounded like someone with back. [jerking his head towards the door] go.
[as foreman leaves] we'll try and muddle through without your blank stare to guide us. [to cameron and chase] so if it's not the bad things he's putting in what about the good things?
was raised. means he's all grown up. or he's not a vegetarian anymore.
would if he had an otc deficiency. body can't metabolize nitrogen damages the liver. run a hamburger test.
it's exactly what it sounds like. stuff him full of meat wait for his ammonia levels to spike.
and you went shirtless because... skin cancer looks cool.
lie down.
[to mark] when daddy works on his boat does he have a cooler with lots of brown bottles with long necks?
[filling the syringe with water] and does daddy like to lie down on his boat and go nap-nap in the sun?
[holding the syringe out to doug] i will give you this for the... [calculates] one dollar forty one cents in your pocket.
a psychic once told me that i'm psychic.
hey one of these quarters is canadian. [mad] give me back my syringe.
welcome back.
or on me. apology accepted. [walks to the nurse's station] starve him.
[tossing doug's file on the 'station] diabetic steatosis would screw up his liver. starve him overnight and see if his blood sugar pops.
not a problem. you can take him.
which is shortening as we speak. we are looking at a chinese menu and we've got symptoms from too many columns. they're going to overcharge us.
so we're only gonna pay attention to _abnormal_ abnormalities?
get the sequencing primers. see if it's one of the ones we can treat.
[whirls around] job interview?
you do the nurse stuff they'll do the doctor stuff.
[looks up] yes. those are the two options. it is... or it isn't.
[donning his jacket] lovely disease. degenerative fatal incurable. i wonder if that's why cameron's on the not side.
so let's speed it up.
so you two kids will stop fighting. [removing his bag] also i don't feel like waiting for respiratory failure. chase find some way for the mother to get lost for a while. [cracks his knuckles outwards] i'm going to stress this kid until he bites off a finger.
[greg's anatomy's...] dr. mccaney. the man who's gonna kick your ass all over this chessboard.
[pushing up nate's sleeve] ...bite yourself yeah. you need some liquid energy.
now if you consent i'm gonna give you this shot of adrenaline.
aside from being indicative of pituitary issues and certain kinds of genetic disorders small testicles also indicate... [disposes off the syringe] that you're a big chicken. please don't make me do the sound effect.
didn't think i'd have to. thought you'd just jump at the chance of humiliating someone.
[winding the chess clock] it... is... on!
bird's opening. passive approach.
[slap] sign of a coward.
[makes a move slap] arrogance has to be earned.
[moving a bishop] tell me what you've done to earn yours. [slap]
i don't bleed out of my penis.
check.
you know it's a real thin line between tortured genius and awkward kid who can't get girls because he's... creepy.
to stress you out.
check.
i'd tell you but i figure it's more stressful if you don't know why.
you know that no one likes you right?
[declaring] you're dying.
check. [slap]
your move.
crap.
he's having a seizure. four milligrams iv lorazepam.
[under his breath] i hate this kid.
you get the job?
so we've got one more symptom one less diagnosis. [to foreman] i assume they're gonna call for references? you give 'em my name?
whose name did you give?
ouch! that can't look good. [still frustrated at having been beaten] i hate this kid.
uh-uh it's gotta be one. it's always one.
what if he is? what if the symptoms lied?
[looking at the ducklings] there. now all we're looking at is a simple evil jerk with amyloidosis.
amyloidosis was your idea.
yeah it does. [now erases the crossed-out personality word] look.
you want him to be a victim because you wanna believe that people are good. and if they're not it's gotta be a chemical problem. except they're not and it's not. [to chase and cameron] flush him with immunosuppressants. get a biopsy to confirm and find him a marrow donor.
it was your idea. don't give up on it so fast.
is he having trouble breathing?
could also be an amyloid buildup. keep him on immunosuppressants and biopsy somewhere else his sinuses.
[cutting him off] look you got two choices. engage me in a futile argument then do what i asked or just do what i asked.
you're not ready.
there was a third choice. don't do what i asked. you coulda defied me stuck the kid on antibiotics. but you didn't. because you still trust my judgment more than your own.
[sighs] foreman's already been over this. [clearly] it wasn't me.
and why would i do that?
[smiling] you know [smirks] sometimes i forget why i hired you.
i cost him a crappy opportunity. new york mercy's where you go to treat boils and cysts and build a 401k.
i don't and there'd be no point.
he doesn't need that.
we dumped one symptom. but forgot to add one.
[declaring] revenge time nate.
yes! i am. [holds his hands out clenched] black or white?
pick one or... [points to an iv bag] this comes out. and for all you know this is really important.
that hurts right? which is odd because i'm really enjoying this. you hold the pieces that way because you can't bend your thumb.
because your bones have formed abnormally. thanks to all the crap that's been pushing its way in between them.
actually this stuff isn't important at all.
[waving it off] they're idiots. it's not amyloidosis. it's iron. he's got hemochromatosis.
the body absorbs iron from food but can't process it.
can't get rid of it. and idle iron is the devil's playground. it builds up in the organs and joints whacking them in the process.
caused all of the symptoms. including something that wasn't a symptom.
those body aches they were not from the fighting.
[taking a scalpel] sorry. the iron's innocent on that count. your kid's a jerk.
and yeah it's probably your fault. although if you'd stayed off the meat like your mom said you'd have half as much iron and be twice less... almost dead.
oh nurse!
[innocently] this patient is bleeding for some reason.
he'll need dialysis. and he'll have to get his blood drained every few months for the rest of his life. my condolences. it's going to be a long and annoying life.
[leaning close to nate] i wouldn't have taken your bishop. i'd have moved my queen to d6 defusing the threat. then rook to e8 attacking the king's pawn. i'd have lost the exchange but won the game.
[grumbling] jerk.
[beat] still running the new biopsy for amyloidosis?
run the test again. recheck your results.
looks like you're in for an all-nighter.
i'm world famous now press won't leave me alone.
i know. if it was the press i'd be answering.
she didn't book an appointment.
you don't reach terra firma you don't get any milk or honey.
you know why i find the goodbye party fascinating? [he puts away the paper and rubs his stubbled chin] isn't it kind of insulting to celebrate when someone leaves you?
nothing.
yeah.
nothing i can do. he doesn't want more money better working conditions doesn't even want a better job. he wants to not be me.
he's right. [bites into a bun]
don't. foreman's not the only chocolate-covered cherry in the box.
8th.
that used to be true but i changed.
this would be a lot easier if we had her medical records. any of you certified deep sea divers?
[takes off his cap and puts it on a model of a brain] if there's one thing castro knows is how to look great in green. [he gives pointed looks in foreman's direction but the duckling has his back to the rest of the room and doesn't seem to see] and if there are two things castro knows is how to look great in green and train doctors. even without the medical records we can assume she was drowned in antibiotics before she risked drowning to see me.
how to lay his hands on high-tech scanning equipment. [points to the list of symptoms on the board] pain double vision point us towards the head. cameron get an mri see what's cooking in the old cabeza. [she goes out to do as asked] chase check out the husband.
basic math take all her symptoms subtract his sea symptoms the remainder equals her original symptoms. [chase walks out]
he said that to you?
foreman's not as easy as cameron but of course who is?
maybe it's something i can't offer.
he'd see through it.
i do like being productive. well done do it.
go do your job.
wow. well either foreman's way stronger than he thinks he is or... [he turns around the ducklings are silent] seriously or?
why? because metastatic tumours don't explain the abnormal mri kidney damage cotton mouth double vision? oh wait they do.
it's not an infection.
because an infection would cause a fever and the brilliant doctors who work in my office have already crossed that off the list because the husband--
foreman didn't break her arm.
cancer did. put her on a pet scan see what else is breaking. [he prepares to walk out of the room]
anything else? when you get the results for the pet scan let me know.
you're fired.
because you've been here the longest learned all you can or you haven't learned anything at all... either way it's time for a change.
sure thing first you tell me the results of the pet scan.
would you stay if i did?
yes.
he's not gone 5 minutes and the name-calling starts. what's on the pet scan?
do you know what's on the pet scan?
woah wait! what's on the pet scan?
yes they are all irreplaceable. if only this country had figured out somehow to teach people to interpret pet scans.
i don't suppose you know what's on my patient's pet scan?
so that's a no?
[reluctantly picks up the phone and dials] chase. if you know what's on the pet scan call me back. [put the phone back down]
sorry you're in the wrong room. my name on the door my team my decisions.
[the phone rings] hold that reprimand. [he picks up the phone] house. doctor chase how are ya? [wilson and cuddy look on expectantly] thank you you are indispensable. um you're still fired sorry. [puts down the phone] wow that was awkward. pet scan revealed a blood clot in my patient's arm which means goodbye. still got 2 people working for me got to get one of them to do my job. [he walks out]
did you give an angry cuban my home number?
what did you do?
she has no pulse but she's talking. cough.
cough again. keep coughing it'll push blood into your head keep you conscious. [she obeys foreman is trying to help start her heart again through cpr] push 1 mg epinephrine.
no but it is amazingly cool.
we need to keep her here if this is a clot then forcing a bypass will blow it into her brain and kill her.
what would cause the heart to stop? let's assume it wasn't human error. [looks at foreman]
which is why i said assume.
tell him what? we have no idea what happened. [he starts walking out of the room]
keep going 'til i figure this out.
help! i'm trapped inside a monitor!
my patient lost her heartbeat during a routine cardiac catheterisation so--
it's not human error.
pre-procedure ekg was normal no syncope.
foreman said no st segment changes.
it's not human error.
did you just spin on the monitor? you know i can't see you. [wilson turns back to the surgery looking perplexed] human error would not explain her symptoms.
i mean her foot pain her back pain...
foreman and cameron are doing cpr.
[from the balcony above] excuse me professor.
my patient has no heartbeat. stopped when we inserted a catheter during a routine angiogram. anyone tells me why her heart stopped gets an a in doctor cuddy's class.
yeah i'm polling first year medical students because i hadn't considered human error.
structural abnormalities would show up on the echo you get a c.
f.
b+. unfortunately she missed her last botox appointment due to a boating accident but send me your resume.
[looks at foreman who is drenched in sweat] good lord you smell like muskox.
i was worried about a clot.
you can vacuum later.
her heart stopped.
if i knew that i'd be coming to you.
happening. present participle. not a particularly interesting form of speech kind of like of this conversation.
[takes a vicodin] helps my process.
well then you do not ignore your wife.
need to look at the heart.
can't find my wallet. pick it up turn it over.
hearts don't stop for no reason.
give her a jump start.
and again
again.
i'm not telling her husband anything until i can tell him why his wife--
[walks in] can i have a hug too? surgeon found nothing can't start her heart. [looks at the present] what a thoughtful gift. nice reminder of intellectual theft to hang at your new place of employment. you two can go say hi to chase for me. [he looks at cameron] you're wearing lipstick.
you two have no theories about why the heart stopped. which means i don't need you go.
tell him what?
why?
how can we tell him there's no hope if we don't know why there's no hope? he's not going to pull the plug on his wife he risked his life to get her to me. if he pulls the plug it means he's failed.
and you're ok with that? go.
the way the security light hits your legs... looks good.
if you're here to yell at me about the foreman-chase situation it can wait.
haven't put a clock on it.
patient's husband prefers her not dead.
this is not an act i don't care if--
what if i can fix it? maybe i just don't know it yet.
i don't care. i really don't care. my motives are pure - if we do an autopsy you'll see... oops... if i'd thought of that crazy idea we could have saved her. and then the husband might be upset.
i was told you didn't believe in god.
it's not working she's not coming back. if you want to say goodbye come down to the icu then i'll take her off bypass. i'm sorry i should've-- [esteban turns to house and clings to him for comfort as he cries]
[nods] yeah.
probably. just not her heart.
she's not sleeping we double-checked.
no it's residual flow from the bypass.
qrst wave that's a normal normal.
holy crap.
no it's new jersey.
it's impossible.
live hearts don't stop for no reason. dead hearts don't start for no reason.
no it's not.
just 'coz it's not there now doesn't mean it's gone.
antibiotics did not bring her back to life.
how come god gets credit whenever something good happens? where was he when her heart stopped? what if it wasn't human error? what if it was god's error? a congenital defect in an artery making it susceptible to inflammation. we need to do another angiogram.
the one time we looked inside her heart we stopped before we could see anything.
good news we think we know what the problem is.
hey it's my first language not yours. if she wants to outlive castro we need to fix her heart.
in case no one's filled you in today is monday which means you've been dead for a day. that kind of symptom comes back it can get serious. i need to do another angiogram.
no god caused that. he's all powerful you know.
your rescuers didn't have wings they had a helicopter.
you know how many little boys are praying for jet packs? how many priests are praying for... uhh that one actually works.
i'm not going to take you away from him but if we don't do this test god will.
which means i was wrong. but i'm wrong all the time my mistakes don't prove there's a god. you came a long way to see me you going to put her life in god's hands or in mine?
ready?
[to esteban] i better not see you praying! i don't want to have to fight for credit on this. exiting the femoral entering the aortic arch.
where we stopped to have a picnic last week.
mine's rising too 'course i am doing battle with a deity. [continues to concentrate on the procedure] in the heart injecting the dye.
either i'm right or this test is about to go very bad.
she has one... two... third ostium. how many is she supposed to have? [turns to marina] dos. [that's two in spanish] all the third one's doing is causing inflammation throwing off clots giving away the angiogram. no human would screw up that big! [he directs that at esteban] don't worry just one more surgery and you'll be fine.
[in jest at another reference to thanking god] don't make me slap you. [marina laughs esteban looks relieved]
one more and i get a set of steak knives.
didn't do it for you thought you were the best guy for the job.
which is why i want you to stay. you're an important part of the team i need you.
i just solved a case by predicting a never before seen heart defect a case you couldn't solve a case you gave up on; i couldn't be happier.
the two were connected.
do you think she cares? do you think the husband cares? do you think the children she can now have because of me are going to care why i saved her?
about yourself. about your own ego!
you're the selfish bastard not me. it's why you took so much pleasure in drawing out this little goodbye of yours for the last 3 weeks wasn't for me wasn't for anyone sure as hell didn't help anyone.
nice tries are worthless.
you now have a bigger office than i do why don't you go enjoy it.
better be naked pictures.
what do you expect me to do? break down and apologise? beg chase to come back?
genuine american cigars you guys can't get them in cuba one hundred percent healthy.
patient follow-up very important.
she looks great like she's sleeping.
two of them quit i fired the third.
yeah i must be.
i don't think i am. i think i'm okay.
god only knows.
