hey!
could be ms.
mri's negative for that.
comfortable? [raised eyebrows from the ducklings.]
when we inserted the conduction pin she flinched.
had to relieve the pressure 3 times in the last 2 hours. so either we figure out what's causing blood to build up around her heart or i follow her around with the needle for the rest of her life.
and she's been scanned up and down it's all clean.
yoga girl walked out of here 2 hours ago you fixed her.
he grunted?
dry eyes plus a grunt it all makes sense.
what about coughing or boogers. should we include boogers?
dry eyes goes on the board.
fever plus frequent urination could mean prostatitis.
white count was normal no infection.
no creatinine and bun were both normal.
yeah we're insensitive.
open. [no response. chase has to pry richard's jaw open and spray the sedative into the back of the throat.] i need you to swallow. [again no response; chase closes the patient's mouth and squeezes his nose forcing him to swallow.] sorry about that. here we go. [he starts feeding the scope into richard's mouth.] passing through the lower esophageal sphincter into the atrium of the stomach. [he turns on the ultrasound.] there's the tail of the pancreas.
moving medially the body and the head of the pancreas look clean.
it's stuck i can't move it. his throat's collapsed. [alarms start beeping and foreman quickly gets the equipment to do a tracheotomy.]
cutting.
we trached him endoscopically removed the probe and he's breathing again. so all in all great idea.
you want to look at the lining of his brain? the amount of contrast material you need to pump up there just to see it--
already injected it into his spinal canal. next stop his brain. [richard is sent into the mri machine.]
blood pressure's high. but it's holding.
oh god. foreman get in here! [richard has been bleeding out of his ear.]
surgeon repaired the csf leak.
scar tissue from the biopsy.
how many millimeters? [house looks at cameron like this is why he's bee around longer than anyone else.']
kid is a product of an in vitro fertilization pregnancy. had all his vaccinations fractured his right ulna at age three chicken pox at age five <U+0096>
maybe we should talk to the kid.
well i'm just not arrogant enough to think that of the 50 billion galaxies 100 billion stars per galaxy and 10 million billion planets in the universe that we're the only ones with life.
what? you think the kid <U+0096>
we're going to make a tiny nick in your forearm okay? and we're going to time how long it takes for you to stop bleeding. now this is going to sting a little so you might want to look the other way. [chase nicks him and put the scalpel down.]
those windows don't even open they're just here to let sunshine in.
no it's okay. how do they know you're here?
let me see. lean forward.
you know what clancy? i think i might have found the chip back there. and i think i might be able to get it out.
mm hmm. [quick wink to the parents.] okay lean forwards. now hold very still okay? [he picks at clancy's neck with some tweezers.] got it!
sorry.
his alien abduction story the level of detail is... i don't know where he gets it from. the parents say he doesn't watch sci-fi he doesn't read comic books <U+0096>
no blood tests were all normal. and he clotted in six minutes.
i didn't screw up the test!
how could i screw up a simple bleeding time test?
or foreman screwed up.
[who really has been thinking up a retort.] hey foreman. your momma's so fat when her beeper goes off people think she's backing up. [and no. denied.]
where's clancy?
house! clancy's gone missing.
clancy?
oh god.
clancy stop! there is no chip! we're going to clean you up and we're going to go back to your room. you can't do things like this. your parents [chase stops because he sees something shiny through the blood.]
really?
that pin was removed six months after <U+0096>
titanium is used to build nuclear subs pieces don't just break off.
and how exactly did it get from his arm to the back of his neck?
to his lungs maybe. not his neck.
or foreman screwed up. two out of three tests agree with my findings.
we've had three results that haven't been consistent. one of them must be wrong.
he wasn't trying to hurt himself.
too tight?
no they don't. they're just worried about you that's all.
slight pinch.
i don't think they're going to be bothering you for much longer.
no. we figure this out and everything's going to be okay. [as chase draws blood clancy sees his arm turn white and his veins green. he begins to have trouble breathing.] still with us? [now chase's hands look like they belong to an alien. the monitors beep.] pulmonary edema stage two hypertensive crisis!
wait outside! get him oxygen and start him on an iv drip of sodium nitroprusside. get them outside!
he's in icu systolic is hovering around 170 i left instructions to lower it slowly so we don't risk hypoperfusing his organs.
i'm open to suggestions.
kidneys are clean. [they enter the lab.]
i didn't screw up. how could he clot on his own two out of three times?
right. kids always cheat on their bleeding time tests.
and the first time clancy clotted he was all worked up recounting his alien abduction; he could have easily have been hypertensive.
we think the problem is in your son's heart. we need to do a procedure called a transesophageal echo.
that will tell us where the problem is. hopefully. then we can fix him. listen this isn't really part of my job but he's worried that you think he's crazy.
there are still plenty of other explanations for what's going on. it's important he knows you believe in him even if you don't.
there are no structural defects.
the clearer the image the clearer it is that there are no masses no clots no tears. the problem's got to be somewhere else.
think he'll make us break into the imax before he admits it?
so you found an arrhythmia.
here's clancy's dna and here's the dna from the piece of that heart we just biopsied. [they don't match.]
alien dna.
various species of fungus have been proven mutagenic.
who cares what caused it? a kid comes in with strep we don't conduct a search to see which classmate he got it from; we cure it. we know he's got this stuff inside of him; let's get a scalpel and cut it out.
makes a lot of noise and it's going to help us figure out what's wrong with you.
his leg should be functional after some rehab.
if everything goes well he'll walk he'll run; he'll probably be even stronger than he is now. when we close him up we'll move over to his other leg snake a catheter up through the femoral artery and into his heart. [cg shot of this being done.] once the affected areas are removed his normal tissue will step back in and do its job. he should have no more problems with his blood pressure. after confirming those areas are clear we'll start our final procedure. we're going to insert a needle through the pupil and get rid of the abnormal cells in the retina.
close your right eye. can you see my face?
you can throw away your glasses. we got it all. get some sleep you're going home tomorrow.
he's seizing. i need clonazepam!
[under his breath.] yeah yell at me that'll fix the kid.
we didn't miss anything. brain scan was completely clean.
so how are we going to find it? [house walks away.]
like nothing ever happened?
we don't know that we fixed anything it's only been a day. maybe these symptoms come and go like the blood disorder.
we've confirmed two different sets of dna we re-ran the sequence.
yeah they had trouble conceiving.
not really. what's on the card?
sort of. [house hits another part of clancy's brain.]
what do you see on this one?
we're all kind of weird. [house touches his brain again.]
clancy?
what do you see?
his blood pressure's already 160/110. any higher and <U+0096>
you've already exceeded the preset maximum. next step's brain damage.
yep we got them all.
everything's going to be normal again.
the researcher? the guy who wrote that textbook?
oxygenation is through the floor and lungs are full of fluid. gotta be his heart; could be amyloidosis. [he holds up the chest x-ray.]
it's not the lungs. chest x-ray is clean.
at 71 we get his heart or lungs to give out we might not get 'em to give in again.
and if he falls and breaks a hip we're not gonna see anything
luckily he'll handle it in a stoic grown-up fashion -- he'd never take it out on us. [foreman nods.]
i'm in. [tight shot on the syringe and powell grimacing.]
he's seen all the tests we've seen. even if we figure out what was causing the lung damage it's too late to reverse it.
no. we give him a syringe full of morphine. [the others turn to look at him.] every doctor i've ever practiced with has done it. they don't want to they don't like to but that's the way it is.
right. just means we talk about it. [pause.] at some point do no harm has to mean allowing nature to take its course not stubbornly standing in the way of it.
i'll draw cultures. pneumonia; should be bacteria in his blood.
not if i spin down the sample. separate off the buffy coat then gram stain for bacteria.
nothing in the urine.
what are you doing?
but you told him <U+0096>
lung scarring along with the bad bone marrow points to an autoimmune disease. could be pulmonary fibrosis.
moving into the sigmoid.
[with slight sarcasm.] she's doing what she believes in.
and if you were acting on principle you would have called the cops when you thought house was killing the guy.
why?
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
sample of the left lobe isolated and removed. clamp. [cut to house watching surgery from above. cameron walks in.]
bp's low. [house takes stethoscope from random surgeon then checks ezra with it.]
heart rate's decreasing.
what are you doing? [house prods ezra's left foot and it twitches.]
or the hypoxia from the arrest stunned his cns.
won't work. he needs muscle relaxants to be on the ventilator.
you can't be discharged; you've got two chest tubes in.
you got that by splashing ice water on him?
kawasaki's would explain the kidney failure.
or sarcoidosis.
skin.
[at a microscope as house enters.] it's not kawasaki's either. what's next?
amyloidosis?
congo red added.
oh god. protein type aa. [everyone looks disheartened -- and house hands cameron a candy bar.]
[beta comment: who lately always seems willing to give it a shot when the other two are being dismissive.] kid clutched his chest bp was elevated; maybe there was chest pain.
could also be an environmental reaction; an allergy dust wheat pollen a toxin.
save your time ssris don't cause chest pain. [he puts something back in the fridge and looks at what is on the door.] wow. every minute of every day is booked. he eats sleeps plays his handheld.
they chose to have a family; you don't get to decide what your kid's going to be like.
it's funny. you get a normal kid a parent works. you get a special kid that costs more; you quit and turn the backyard into a therapy circuit.
should we do this some place else?
if there's a pleural effusion we have to rule out heart failure. [beta comment: still the only one actually on task.]
still doesn't explain the effusion. pleural fluid was in exudate we should be looking for something that explains both the heart and lung problems. an infection parasite cancer?
but we're not talking about cancer cells.
parents aren't doing or dosing this kid.
they quit their jobs for him.
he's in v-fib!
clear! charging clear! charging clear!
biopsy was negative for cirrhosis. parents didn't poison their son.
he's constipated parents probably just overdid it.
old lead paint?
pressure-treated wood used to contain arsenic.
jimson weed doesn't explain the screaming.
treatment for jimson weed od is physostigmine. kid's got heart issues the two don't mix. we better make sure that's what he's got.
he won't survive 3 days.
even if you find 15 minutes of free time outside doesn't mean he spent it eating a bush.
it's consistent with jimson weed poisoning ocular paralysis. [the other stranger gets up to leave.] sorry.
stroke bleed in the brain.
she was in some sort of assault right? simple neck trauma.
there's pot. on the tox screen. [house opens the file again] salmonella from the pot would explain the stomach pains.
she's on steroids from the swelling therefore no fever. and the smoking explains the throat.
we should switch her to a different antibiotic.
we can't treat the salmonella unless--
stick test was negative for peanuts.
come on foreman pay up. he won! or we could just never finished the ddx.
great i hadn't committed any felonies yet today.
wilson likes jazz. foreman pay the man.
if they can live here without killing each other they must really be in love. it's tiny.
box of condoms in his jacket.
she's on the pill <U+0096> why would they need condoms?
why?
he'd be right. could be an std.
maybe they're embarrassed. what else could it be? you think they just like the sexy feel of latex against their genitals?
come on you really believe that?
good. then i'm sure you'll have no problem convincing house.
gonorrhea explains all their symptoms. fitz-hugh curtis syndrome for her belly pain costochondritis and bladder infection for his chest and abdominal pain.
wish one of us had figured that out stuck to his guns. still we're gonna check you both.
some generalized edema throughout and areas of increased signal here here here and here.
it could be plaques hyperdensities from the edema
firefighters and residents of pine tar forests?
the brain stem? brain damage is not only possible it's likely!
we can't increase it any more his respirations are depressed.
give it up. foreman and cameron are too ethical and i'm too scared of getting sued.
we can't babysit house all day.
atropine? what happened to <U+0096>
that's actually pretty clever.
this isn't sarcoidosis.
he's got ischemic bowel.
well let's see. lack of blood flow's causing his guts to die which will cause him to die unless we cut out a few feet of small intestine and reattach the ends. i don't know seems like a match.
probably from cutting him open.
stds maybe we got the wrong one. what about syphilis neurological symptoms <U+0096>
it's an incredibly rare disease. they would both have to have a parent <U+0096>
that's sweet cameron.
you don't think dying will do that? [tracy moves her finger and the oximeter falls off her finger.]
hey foreman can you wear the beeper for a couple hours this weekend? what?
i'm not allowed to run errands any more?
so are you going to wear the beeper or not?
you just want to punish me.
with what?
which means he's a diabetic with blood thicker than pancake batter. no mystery there not much we can do.
i'm guessing it's food related. [he's sitting in one of the chairs away from the table filling in something in a newspaper - probably a crossword; he doesn't seem to really care.]
he's probably at the track.
the guy didn't get to 600 pounds eating a load of sushi.
no we haven't.
what happened to you?
cuddy found you?
and i doubt a guy who weighs 600 pounds bothers with annual physicals.
i wouldn't exactly call this attached. [he puts on a clip on another metal tab stuck to george's skin on his chest.] this is ridiculous a person shouldn't be able to eat themselves into oblivion and then just expect everyone to pull out the stops to fix everything.
come on give me a break; this guy isn't obese he's not even morbidly obese. he's suicidal.
but yet non-compliant diabetics don't. we don't give drug addicts dialysis or alcoholics liver transplants.
yeah i'm the one with the problem
he's not 1 pound over he's 150 pounds over.
so what do we do now?
i'm not sure we can do an lp on a guy his size.
what? you have to be able to palpate the spine to go know where to go. [foreman gives a conceding look.]
he still wouldn't be able to bring his knees up and bend forward in order to open a space between--
i'm trying.
it was probably just some sort of head trauma and we missed the swelling because well his head's already swollen.
he's not worse he's better.
a glandular problem would cause his temperature to be low not high.
if the fever's not related there's nothing to talk about.
we should do nothing. just keep him a couple of days for observation if he doesn't get any worse it was probably just a hematoma that dissipated on its own.
how about your father's side of the family? any relatives we could speak with?
it's probably the simplest explanation. trauma.
he didn't report being an alcoholic either. drinking equals falling down equals trauma equals...
what caused the vegetative state?
he has a single bed.
could mean he just doesn't have sex though there were condoms in the apartment.
no mold no leaks no pets.
[protesting.] genetic tests take forever. you can't just keep testing him for every inherited condition you think it might be.
to see if this is a reaction to our meds?
kidney and liver failure; not too many people come back from that.
did you miss the part where the patient lost consciousness?
you have no reason to think any manner of drugs will wake a man from a coma.
saw you with the cop. what'd he want?
he wants to talk to us too?
[unsettled.] we've gotta tell house what's going on.
he's still sliding into coma.
i'll call house. tell him i'm gonna need an answer soon.
it's hard to say. pain levels vary all the time. could be six eight... ten.
[nods.] yes.
he asked me to.
'kyou. [it's thank you not the other thing!!!]
need twenty milligrams of diazepam in a syringe!
he's gonna crash!
better hope so! either that or his heart's done!
probably got an intestinal virus from one of those feral kids running around. repeated vomiting causes an electrolyte imbalance which leads to an arrhythmia which leads to the heart attack...
[continued] ...and itchy feet.
that's... it? nope?
if you know the diagnosis why don't you...?
[holding jack's file] house was on this page when he got that annoying i'm-such-a-genius look.
patient history.
[reading] quit drugs when his parents died. quit smoking.
house didn't mock my viral idea. he just said it was wrong. which means he didn't want to give reasons which means i must have been close. [perking up] i'm thinking bacteria. i'm doing a blood culture.
what are you doing instead?
anybody else sick at work?
[reassuring] he's a doctor.
[quickly] you don't have to talk about that right now.
positive for hepatitis a?
or it's a food borne toxin. jack eats at that cesspool everyday.
why don't i just test him?
[suspicious] and you couldn't say that in front of foreman?
detective tritter knows about the scrips i wrote before.
does anyone fall for that argument?
[firm] no.
we both know it's not gonna be just one. i'd rather lose my job than lose my license.
is there anything jack does that no one else does? anything special duties?
what kinda cleaning products do you use?
so there's no one who can maybe help get the bags out?
i can tip.
i'm almost finished.
one of you two screwed up.
apparently he's positive for botulism too.
no. white count was normal and he was negative for hiv.
if they were in his fat why would they be affecting him now?
you want us to starve him so we can drive him into another seizure and maybe a heart attack just so we can run another tox screen?
i'm sure that they're watching and i'm sure they're proud.
jack?
don't break his arm!
[looking at monitor] brain stem's clean.
that size should be excisable. why didn't we see it earlier? how...?
we need to start him on radiation.
there aren't any. we saw the tumours.
or if he grew up on mars. no germs there either.
bruton's agammaglobulinemia.
the aspergillis is a t-cell issue. common variable immunodeficiency. [pauses to watch wilson walk out]
[quickly] genetic testing's gonna take time. given the rate he's picked up infections...
if the pancreatitis wasn't set off by drugs and she hasn't been sick that leaves trauma. or some kind of structural defect. put up the ct.
his theory correctly predicted the pancreatitis.
i wasn't kissing his arse.
he predicted the pancreatitis.
my dad was an arse.
shyeah! it's that simple.
[a bit resentful] cut me out of his cushy will.
[looking at the ultrasound] house was right. gallstones.
it's... unusual. that's why we need to see what's causing it. we'd like to remove alice's gallbladder and analyse the stones.
it's a simple procedure. the gallbladder isn't essential...
[into phone frustrated] i already gave you that number.
yeah great plan! the man's obviously open to reason.
thank you for your help?
[getting up] he hasn't gotten to mine yet. [getting his jacket] i'm gonna withdraw as much as i can as fast as i can. lunch is on me.
house scratch test is getting results. a lot of results.
infections radiate. the shape of this isn't...
if she is allergic antibiotics could cause massive systemic reaction.
how's the kid doing?
if you like parsley and croutons. tritter finally froze my accounts.
you surprised? why wouldn't he?
[offended] what? like talking?
he doesn't freeze my accounts i'm guilty. he does freeze my accounts i'm guilty.
in her room. but you're not supposed to...
call security!
[to nurse's station] get a gurney!
except that her liver's starting to shut down. no dystrophy.
muscle rigidity plus liver involvement means wilson's.
yes.
yeah i assume that's why you did it.
to save my job. he goes down now i lose my job.
[shaking his head in confusion] why would he fire me?
i haven't rolled on him.
as far as he knows my accounts are frozen just like everyone else's.
why would you do...?
that's... unlikely. the charcoal would have absorbed a lot of the heparin. she's been anaemic. could be a primary blood disorder.
pain wasn't house's fault. even if the clot was a reaction to what we gave her we still have to...
rickettsialpox causes rash fever and muscle pain.
maybe he wants us to think that one of us talked.
we were all with him.
can we talk?
i really think you need...
[spiteful] yeah maybe chase screwed up.
you always end up there just getting a jump on it.
i doubled her up.
we're not even certain this was an infection.
[tired] little late to be playing differential games isn't it?
laser pointers don't burn you genius.
you don't trust my aim? maybe you should cover any sensitive...
he was wrong about the puppies!
house!
gotta stop the surgery! she doesn't have necrotizing fasciitis!
she's got erythropoietic protoporphyria! she's allergic to light. it's genetic. either parent could have carried it.
she gets worse everytime she goes under surgical lights! dad takes her outside...
[insistent] stop the surgery!
[pushes him back] no! i'm...
light damages the blood cells. the damaged blood cells contain protoporphyrin. the protoporphyrin builds up in the liver. that's why the liver's shutting down!
[beat] house missed one.
[resentfully] he nearly maimed a little girl. i got it right. and i told him and it didn't matter.
[forcefully spreading jelly on the bread] trust me i'm not waiting any more.
i'm fine.
can't be tb since cuddy already ruled it out. [he hands the case down to foreman]
there are over 200 varieties of dwarfism each with different medical complications; you can't expect us to be intimately familiar with all of them.
there's nothing there.
because there's nothing wrong?
bone windows look clean.
if the ends involve us keeping our jobs sure. lung parenchyma's is clean no masses. it's not lung cancer.
endoscopy confirmed the vomiting was caused by variceal bleeding. blood work also confirms house's hypothesis--
there's no eosinophilia.
or drugs and alcohol. if anyone has a reason to dull the pain it's a teenaged dwarf.
and i'll search the patient's home for drugs and alcohol.
santa's got gifts. [he starts taking stuff out of his bag that he got from abigail and maddy's home] olive oil wasn't in the kitchen; it was in the medicine cabinet.
or it's a symptom.
or house is wrong and it's a symptom. [foreman turns around and starts writing on the board] laxatives - don't think they were used to maintain her girlish figure.
again might be a symptom. glucosamines suggests chronic joint pain.
langerhans cell histiocytosis attacks multiple organ systems.
bleeding wasn't a ruptured eardrum ear infection or bleeding disorder. her heart rate's climbing blood pressure's dropping she's on the verge of a multi system failure.
[to house] why don't you contest the search of the pharmacy records?
he was in the burn unit for six months and had multiple surgeries could be a hospital acquired infection maybe mrsa.
if it was thallium he'd be losing his hair.
yes his age is the reason it's weird that a man has menopause.
he's presenting no other signs of premature aging.
and there's nothing to suggest a pulmonary embolism.
where you going?
what about something vascular polyarteritis nodosa.
the man's life as he knows it could be over. i'd think you of all people would wanna cut him some slack.
[thinking suddenly realising something] everybody lies. [smiling] his tox screen.
exactly. it shouldn't be. he's had extensive skin grafts which hurt like hell.
but they do have pain. this guy's worried about losing his job so he's hiding the pain. we find out where the pain is maybe we find out where the problem is.
either way it's something.
[looking at the monitor] it's not his lungs! he's got marked st elevation he's having a heart attack [chase injects him with a syringe]
more important question is what caused the attacks.
maybe we should go.
none of the attacks happened in the same place.
his clothes were all different he'd been cleaned.
people don't cause heart attacks.
that's a plain old stress cardiomyopathy not a heart attack.
we could try propylthiouracil slow down his metabolic rate.
[running out of ideas] so buy him a girlfriend make him happy.
so keep him away from her.
he needs a shrink.
whatever was killing him before is still there.
his blood's normal and his heart's pumping it up to the brain
go back to court we will let you know the results.
he's wired.
nurses said he was holding his head. how d'you know it was specifically his ear?
what if he was psychotic first? then self-mutilated damaged the ear.
so why are we doing the tests?
[to cameron] you romantically wanting to believe that is never gonna make it true.
[defensively] i'm agreeing with you. you're the last person she should be talking to.
tell her... [thinks almost says something but stops then gives up] keep her asleep.
there's no wrong answer. because there's no right answer.
is she hot?
doesn't mean she's not hot.
he passed out while making out. if he's into sex drugs and rock and roll can't be that far behind. i'm guessing cocaine.
it still could have been drugs that cause the pipes to corrode in the first place.
put food-borne parasites and infections on the list to check on. i'll take the bedroom.
oh. sorry. i didn't know there was anyone we were just
okay. you don't have a gun. and you're not calling the cops.
unless? who calls the cops unless a burglar does something. you don't want to have to explain the affair.
he's got a ring. you don't. and judging from the state of the kitchen downstairs and the half-vacuumed bedroom i'm guessing you're a better lover than you are a maid.
ah sorry.
it was the address you gave.
(to leah) you know where he lives?
if we can't trust your answers
kind of. he's romany. apparently they feel the need to keep secrets so it's hard to know anything for sure.
increased pressure downstream could also stop the blood.
leukemia?
a cancer a tumor could erode a blood vessel.
nothing wrong with being a salesman.
magnifying times 5.
clot in the liver is breaking up.
we can't give methotrexate to a kid who's already had lung problems.
he doesn't have crohn's or arthritis.
you can add the surgical team to the list of people who won't let us near him.
bladder kidney.
you ran the small bowel in the or.
mucosa looks normal healthy. no lonely diverticular.
i'm in his colon.
i am. there's nothing there.
spiking on leads c3 and o2.
high billirubin. could be a liver problem.
and have been since the day she was born.
where are you going?
long as possible.
i'm sure she'll agree.
breaking that news is that surgeon's problem.
no.
(laughs) cuddy never says no.
nobody ever says no. we don't say no.
he'll come back. he'll browbeat us. he'll give us seven reasons and eventually we'll fold. we all will. not just me. the only way we can avoid biopsying this kid's spine is to find the answer some other way.
we need a better history.
what's the first question?
okay. second question.
where does it hurt? if we knew where it hurt we could diagnose her.
no. cipa means she's insensitive to pain. she still has scattered nerve fibers that could conduct pain but the signals don't make it to the brain. what if we give her more pain signals? a lot more pain signals. maybe some of them might get through.
no. yes we do this to anybody else it's torture. doing it to her it's no different than pricking her finger. we keep poking sharp sticks into her eventually we'll find the part that's already tender.
(dipping hannah's hands in vats of water) one of these is warm and the other is very hot. start here. move to the hot one just a few second. then back. we're gonna monitor activity in your brain while you do it. if you feel any response to the heat it could indicate a vascular problem.
she's okay. do you feel anything?
(looking at thermal images on computer) she's still in surgery. they tell me it's going okay. you can take your hand out.
take your hand out of the water!
hannah. (pulls her hand from the hot water) you just got second degree burns.
they said she's okay. surgery this long is typical when there are internal injuries.
(to cameron) think she would?
if we wanted to hurt you we'd let you jump.
hannah! what do you want from us? what do you want us to do?
the paralysis caused the fall. spine's clean. no veritable fractures or spinal cord compression.
there are other tests
there are still other tests.
you could paralyze her and get no useful information.
a few nerve fibers we teased out of the center had some insulation left. but the insulation around the bundles is stripped bare.
no tingling no itching. so we can rule out
saying goodbye.
guilt as a symptom?
this is pointless. if the headache was caused by the illness it means she has a b12 deficiency. if it's just because she was sad it's meaningless. how the hell do we test for that?
it's so you don't move during the procedure.
what thing?
hannah. wake up. somebody here to see you. she's got limited motion on her left side. you might have to take care of her for a while. (hannah starts to get up to lean over to her mom) whoa whoa whoa whoa. you don't feel it but you're about to rip your stitches out. take care of yourself. then you can take care of her.
happy valentine's day.
wow. thank you for that dash of cold water.
that makes sense.
like microwave pizza?
like microwave pizza.
i get it. i get it. so what if i'm offended by your judgement.
[drowsy] what's up?
[blows raspberry in disinterest] i'm going back to bed.
[caught sheepishly turns around] bathroom. it can wait.
do we have to start a twenty-five-year-old case before breakfast?
[simultaneously] [busted yet denying it] no.
i'm going home.
he could show up any minute.
you've been here?
[as he passes by her] come with?
[making his way to his boss' bedroom] i'm gonna get fired anyway.
[going through a magazine calling out] we're wasting our time!
unless you think he's going to boston to attend a high-school reunion put it back and let's get out of here before he comes home.
i wonder if he has teeth.
[looking at a phone bill] what's the area code for boston?
it was a heart problem.
there's a risk his throat could collapse.
[coming over patrick] all right here we go patrick. [brings an instrument near patrick's face.]
okay open. like this. [opens his mouth to show patrick.]
[controlled voice] you're right. surgeon found a bleed behind the kidney and the retroperitoneal cavity but no reason for it. [sighs] no cancer no ruptured arteries.
[walking up to house] so bleeding explains the symptoms but we've got no explanation for the bleeding.
and while they were closing him up patrick had a grand mal seizure... which makes no sense since he's on an anti-convulsive medication.
we're just asking for a couple of vials.
how can we do that if we know you're not?
strongest seizures will light up different parts of the brain which will indicate response to damage.
any chance it'll work?
he doesn't seem depressed.
we'll get right on it as soon as we're finished here.
got another trial going on at duke. fifteen percent extend their lives beyond five years. if you're positive for protein phf...
either trauma an aneurysm cancer or autoimmune disease.
you can't just randomly stab the temporal lobe and hope to hit the right spot.
you don't know how patrick's brain reorganized itself twenty-five years ago?
do you have to do that?
yeeah.
i'm sorry you're dying. i'm gonna hug you.
[getting emotional] anything to say?
[finally letting go] no. [moves away keeping his back to house] respiration rate's up. seizures are coming down. 's all good.
but there is no next. he's gonna be fine.
there's nothing else for him.
[running a test] i've isolated the cancer proteins in house's csf.
[sleepy yet annoyed] you wanna do it?
[sees something] what's that?
that shouldn't be there.
we did an fda antibody test. the vdrl was a false negative. [thrilled to bits] you're not going to die! all you need is iv antibiotics!
[gestures happily] of course.
then why aren't you celebrating?
why would you want us to think you...?
different war same place. whatever was there in 1990 is still there.
what so thousands of soldiers are lying about the symptoms?
you think this guy has gulf war syndrome?
we're not saying we don't believe you.
we just need to be specific about what exactly the problems are.
low potassium could also probably be caused by the experimental vaccines and anti chemical warfare pills he was given before he deployed to iraq. not to mention the fact that whole country is littered with hundreds of tons of radioactive shrapnel from depleted uranium munitions.
we forgot to ask. we should send his urine to the university of leicester there's a professor there who's developed a more advanced screening technique for uranium.
it's not uranium it's got to be some other sort of toxin.
both.
we can't leave if we don't monitor the whole test house won't accept the results he'll just make us do it over.
oh so you want me to stay?
i never said it was a sleep disorder.
[scoffs.] just... go.
here?
yea and video cameras too.
yeah that's all i need is house or foreman walking in on us.
[thinks about it.] no what if he wakes up?
what's going on?
you were wrong about the nothing's-wrong-atosis you can fake fatigue and joint pain but you can't fake bacterial vaginosis in your mouth.
we've ruled out hiv diabetes and any other endocrine abnormality.
no his eyes and tear ducts are fine.
it's not an std you just said...
so the question is why is he wasting our time?
you think he's got a medical reason for asking for the guy's credit report?
uhhh... we just... stepped out for a second.
to... get a coffee. we'd been up most of the night.
[defensive] she did me once!
no. you didn't have to be so convincing.
this is getting out of control.
our patient woke up with an infection while we were getting our rocks off.
no. but i don't want to get caught either.
you certainly didn't go out of your way to keep the volume down while we were in the sleep lab.
maybe you want to give house a reason to be jealous?
we're not doing it at work anymore.
about everything. where he's lived who he's dated besides forgetting to mention his dad's shin splints his granddad's nosebleeds and to return a few rented dvd's everything he's told us has checked out.
because you told me not to.
you think depleted uranium might have something to do with his tumours?
i don't care. which is why i didn't feel the need to ask him 8 personal questions.
just making an observation.
i was right. he's excreting depleted uranium in his urine. we should start him on an iv infusion of isotonic sodium bicarbonates.
you're the one...
depleted uranium doesn't just cause cells to mutate it can cause cell death as well.
if house wanted to be involved in the case... [again from john's point of view so we don't hear the end of the sentence.]
[taps foreman on the shoulder and shows him the whiteboard on which chase has already written 'don't tangle the lines'.] i went to medical school too. [shows john the board john nods.]
can you breathe? [writes 'trouble breathing?' on the whiteboard and shows john.]
actually it tells us it's not the uranium.
it's all we're going to get.
what's wrong?
there's no sign of bruising or internal haemorrhaging.
there's no evidence...
house. [starts to walk over to house's side of the bed.] his blood obviously didn't just vanish... [slips over and notices a yellow liquid on the floor puts his fingers in it.] what the hell is this?
[still on the ground notices the liquid is coming from houses leg lifts up house's jeans to reveal a catheter bag with a rip in it leaking large amounts of urine onto the floor.] what the hell is that?
[confused.] which means?
since when does he clean anything up?
it looks almost like <U+0096>
ultrasound showed no tumors or stones no signs of fetal distress no urinary tract obstructions.
that mean we get vacation?
it leads to rheumatic fever.
he was the way he always is.
yes. the pain of losing you is obviously forcing him away. coronal slice appears normal.
maybe he just doesn't give a crap. sagittal slice is clean.
or you wanted him to know. now he does and you're annoyed because he doesn't care. [he double clicks a computer key.] right there. transaxial slice. calcified mitral valve.
obviously it is because it did. house was right.
the valve in your heart is narrowed. it caused the clot which led to your stroke and the reduced circulation caused the problems with your kidneys.
it's really very mild. there really is no risk to the fetus.
the good news is emma's heart is fixed. the bad news is it's not her underlying problem. her kidneys are still failing.
there are only a few possibilities. patient's pregnant. it could be preeclampsia. we eliminated it before because <U+0096>
a cholesterol embolism is just as likely. tiny particles of cholesterol rain down clog up the small vessels in the kidneys.
kidney failure has to be precipitated by <U+0096>
the body only has so many ways of screwing with the kidneys. the labs must be wrong.
who are the jews in this metaphor?
we can tell her the truth <U+0096> that she'll be fine as soon as we diagnose a person who weighs about one pound. can't touch it can't ask where it hurts can't see it.
it was in the range but blurry. the fetus was moving all over the place.
good news. fetus' urine had appropriate levels of protein and electrolytes so its kidneys aren't damaged.
we're going to put the shunt in. your baby's lungs should have more room to grow and your symptoms should go away.
that's when we'll remove the blockage in the ureter. you'll be the only mother on the planet who appreciates the value of a wet diaper.
yeah. sure.
[sees picture of cameron on top of a pile] when did you take this?
oh i see her all day at work. i don't need it.
[taking the picture and leaving] thanks.
no infection. did house say anything else? about us?
i like my job.
we're not together. and house can do whatever he wants.
that's not her stomach. [he leans over to check her.]
increased ast alt and her bilirubin's off the charts.
there were no structural problems.
it's not viable at twenty-one weeks. you'll kill the baby.
the fetus is hydropic and in distress. emma's kidneys and liver are failing. the diagnosis is solid.
viral hepatitis. hellp syndrome.
threading the guidewire through the right internal jugular vein.
it's nothing. she's only doing it to make house jealous.
are you kidding?
she already has a big brother.
you obviously care very deeply about her.
firing the needle. [one of the machines starts beeping quickly.]
fetus' heart rate just dropped to 50. [cgi of fetus.] we've got contractions.
we were able to control the pre-term labor with tocolytics. the contractions have subsided for now.
it doesn't make a difference.
we haven't been able to see inside because they're underdeveloped. we've already got her on corticosteroids but it'll take weeks for them <U+0096>
have long-term adverse effects on fetal organ development.
stopping the madness is her job.
fetal lungs are so tiny an mri won't give us the details we need.
can't access his esophagus.
too much radiation for a one-pound person.
a ventilation perfusion scan would be next. [foreman looks like he's about to shoot that one down.]
if it were really a person and we had no other options we'd do an exploratory surgery. cut into his chest and have a look around.
wanna grab a bite?
i'll walk with you. [she sees the picture emma took of chase looking at cameron's picture.]
i'm smiling. i have a nice smile.
i always glow. [he takes the bag as they walk down the hall.]
we should put her back on the scopolamine patch.
have a problem with us agreeing?
it's gotta be something neurological. we should do a ct. look for a brain tumour.
think we should feed the cat?
not unless she was painting with her tongue.
relationship?
you mean because of our _lack_ of a relationship.
[joking] yes foreman's right. i thought you were completely wrong about the medicine but agreed with you anyway because i figured that then you'd do me in some old lady's home.
c'mon we're supposed to be looking for toxins or something.
[whispering] he's watching.
[under his breath] medically.
also no sign of lead poisoning or sepsis. apparently venezuelan tattoo parlours have standards after all.
you said the ct showed...
i think it'd help to know what she has before we start digging into her brain.
got it.
they're gonna kill her.
maybe foreman's right about us too. maybe we should just stop all this. i mean if it's affecting our jobs.
we had sex in a patient's bedroom. a bedroom we were examining for toxins. yeah our judgment's right on the mark.
the bowl.
[looking down at fran] has she eaten since she's been here?
what if it's a symptom?
the bowl was full.
fifty years ago it was one estate. the two homes shared an electrical system. unfortunately the exterminator didn't know that. so when they fumigated next door the poison gas flowed through the old pipe and into your house.
i'm sorry about your cat.
thanks.
i don't know about that.
i want more.
that's not what i meant.
i want this to be more than it is.
in the beginning but you can't tell me you don'...
best bet's coxsackie virus parvovirus b19 cmv...
right. forgot about the part where she did time in russian gulag. her hematocrit's elevated.
yes and i could assume 3 or 4 things to fit my theory too.
good. [hands cameron the file.] then i can go home. [starts to leave.]
well house is going to call us all idiots anyway. might as well be a well-rested idiot. [leaves.]
the pathology report just got filed. found granulomas in lucy's pericardium. [hands house the report.] could be a case of fungal infection.
this will tell us why you are sick so we can make you all better.
that should do it. you ok?
it's not fungal either lymph node biopsy was clean.
[scoffs] yeah tough to find a 6 year old who doesn't have lupus or kawasakis.
carbon monoxide fumes cigarette smoke.
dad could be.
[scoffs.] he says he's not.
does your dad know you're down here?
[pulls the card out of the flowers and reads it out.] congratulations on your bundle of joy. [to cameron.] something you forgot to tell me? [puts the card back.]
[to a security guard.] excuse me? can you make sure these flowers and this kid both get back to where they belong?
thanks.
oven's a long shot. you'd smell the gas long before anyone got sick.
why did you take the flower? why'd you kiss him?
he stole flowers!
you're trying to make me jealous.
you're enabling a thief. [cameron walks into another room.] and a delinquent! [holding a file of papers follows cameron.] letters from school fights detentions a parent conference. oh i know i know bad boys are hard to resist.
it's never harmless.
[sighs.] so this is us now? we snipe at each other?
[joining cameron under the bed.] this isn't right. you dumped me you don't get to be mad.
that amount of blood?
she's so ashamed of a nosebleed she has to hide the evidence in a vent under her bed?
we can't do a vaginal exam on a 6 year old without the dad's consent and if he's abusing her he'll never say yes.
she could be doing it to herself.
she's a little young for a stroke. depression accounts for the cuts molestation accounts for the depression.
so she's getting cut but that's not the source of the blood?
the other obvious source of the blood not the cuts.
so we have no explanation for the cuts or the blood. [they reach house's office but he isn't there.] where is he?
her dad identified it.
if it was in the food it would be an epidemic. we've got one kid.
for the record cameron's the one who broke it off.
i wanted more. she didn't share my feelings.
pituitary's clean.
neither.
firing the biopsy needle.
no.
the arrhythmia must've been a reaction to the hydroxyurea. we have to stop the drug therapy.
you resect the tumour hormones levels go back to normal and her symptoms go away.
thank you.
[laughs.] well i was a boy once. i know how they think.
maybe... 11. [laughs.]
you didn't. you have feelings for me. you come back to me again and again.
c'mon you have feelings for puppies and patients that you barely know but when it comes to a guy that you've worked with for 3 years? [takes her hand.] had sex with spent the night with you're telling me you feel nothing? absolutely nothing?
get him off! [cameron starts trying to pull jasper off jasper bites chase's arm and growls.] ahh! he's biting me! get him off! ahh! [cameron pulls him away chase looks at the big bite mark on his arm that is bleeding.]
just thought you might want to know when one of your employees gets attacked by a sociopath.
you think he's...
jasper's got 100 times more testosterone than a healthy 8-year-old. but we scanned his brain and reproductive tract no hormone secreting tumours.
what if it's genetic? [everyone looks at him.] what anyone else think it's more than a coincidence these kids have symptoms that could be caused by a brain tumour which is exactly what killed their mum?
they looked clean. so did their mum's until it didn't.
yes she did if the symptoms were pubic hair and menstruation.
what if the mum had other problems? symptoms her doctors ignored on account of the fact she was already dying.
mum was perfectly healthy until she got cancer. she had none of the symptoms the kids have.
yes and that would make complete sense if there was anything in her environment.
i know. i also know you like flowers. [they smile at each other chase leaves cameron looks at the flowers.]
i don't think so. she goes from job to job maybe there's some kind of add here. help us pinpoint where the neurological <U+0096>
i still don't think it's drugs. did you check for infection?
could be toxic exposure.
you're figuring she's a minority she must be snorting <U+0096>
she seems like a nice girl.
come on cut her some slack her baby died of sids.
on the other hand the tox screen just came back. she's clean.
hello mr. foreman!
good. you're lucky you caught us there.
so what's up with your dad? didn't know he was going to be in town?
building this old there could be toxic exposure anywhere: asbestos mold the coloring agents in the old wallpaper
i thought we ruled out. clean tox screen means drugs didn't cause the t.i.a.
exposure can come about any number of ways there's no reason to assume drug use.
you'd like that wouldn't you when your dad asked you out for dinner. i'll do the tests you're stuck with the family.
6 mm cuts started at the apexes. also i just wanted to let you know should you change your mind i'll be available.
you don't have to make a big deal about it i just thought i'd let you know. i decided tuesdays would be a good day to do that.
cameron it's fine. no need to go on about it. advancing through the lung bases.
understood.
you're the one who's still talking. look i'm not demanding anything from you i'm not following you home i've got no expectations. a gentle polite reminder once a week is hardly stalking. there's a mass just outside the lingual.
biopsy shows there are white blood cells in the walls of the blood vessels.
we should increase her immunosuppressants and treat her more specifically <U+0096> [drug name i didn't catch].
that doesn't make radiation any safer.
foreman's got a personality issue so you're going to step in?
that's not cancer. it sounds like
but she had no fever. her lp was clear.
you want to go get drunk?
listen i don't i don't know what i believe but sometimes i need to think there's something out there paying attention. so when i can't talk to anybody i talk to god and pretend somebody's listening. we were all wrong foreman. even house was wrong.
he sneezed. maybe it's just an allergy.
how long do we have?
blood panel was negative for all the usual suspects.
making him sicker risks spreading the infection all throughout his body.
kitchen and bathrooms were immaculate. whatever the kid's got he didn't get here.
yeah because their kid's ten and hasn't used it since he was six.
feel bad about what happened last week.
family's gonna sue?
well that's good. for you i mean. a lawsuit makes it even harder to put behind you.
no.
[pitches] memories fade.
[pitches] i was grateful when i could wake up not thinking about her.
no pulmonary symptoms. he's setting well breathing easily.
when did you drink the water?
it could. did you do anything to hurt it?
he deserves a break.
no on klebsiella. [looks at her] and it's tuesday.
it's got nothing to do with foreman or house. it's just... it's the day i remind you i like you and i want us to be together.
no on brucella and both viral antibodies.
you take the day off i'll pick it up on wednesday.
what if we're looking for the wrong thing?
what if it's not an infection?
i know he has an infection but what if it didn't directly cause the scrotum issue? what if it just caused the thing that caused the scrotum issue?
ckmb is elevated.
[interrupts] indicates cardiac injury. we stuck him in that room put his stupid little runny nose infection into hyperdrive. what if it went to his heart?
pulmonary valve looks clean.
either way he's got a dead brother. the infection isn't just in the valve. even with targeted medication there's no way we can clear his system in time.
matty's negative for everything. it's not autoimmune. so we're back to infection.
capillaries are leaking blood. if it happens in his brain he's dead.
[tired] nick's developed blisters all over his feet and legs. he's got grade four graft vs. host.
already did. it's not working.
matty's been off his meds for a few hours but his blood count's still tanking. it means the meds aren't to blame. it's the infection.
you want to give him his brother's infection? the very thing we've been trying to avoid since the brother sneezed?
court order?
bronchoscopy was pristine so much for the lungs.
not yet. [house goes back to his office.]
which means no ulcer or gi bleed. which means it's not from her stomach either. which means it didn't come from anywhere.
trauma from karate?
doesn't look promising.
college sophomore coughing up blood.
patient could have a heart problem.
hyperdynamic heart could force too much blood into her lungs she coughed up the overflow. wouldn't leave a trace in her lungs because it's travelling through normal plumbing.
so why are you leaving? or is it just some sort of power play?
is it about house?
why wouldn't you want to tell me?
even if you do hate me if you found another job you'd tell me. if house did something to drive you out of here you'd tell me. the fact that you won't tell me means whatever the real reason is you're ashamed of it.
pulmonary artery looks good. [looks at foreman through the glass.] it's not a heart problem. [notices something.] are you cold?
scared?
on your arm.
addie has goose bumps.
you don't have goose bumps for no reason. they're a reaction to the body thinking it's cold.
her body thought it was which means?
why's foreman quitting?
interesting. [house turns around.] you're ashamed of the reason too. [house smiles and continues on his way chase leaves in the direction foreman did.]
she coughed up blood.
or you're wrong about infection.
cerebral tumour epilepsy could also be a medication reaction to antidepressants or some meds for end stage liver failure.
you don't want to leave this job. three years you've been here and you've never once laughed at anything he's said.
but now you are? no now you're nervous uncomfortable about your decision. it wasn't even that good a joke.
most of your jokes are excellent. [cameron rolls her eyes.] i just meant in comparison.
we need a crash cart.
let's get her down now.
she couldn't breathe because she had a pleural effusion. thoracentesis revealed low protein count. effusion was transudative which means she has cirrhosis of the liver or she's in heart failure.
labs indicated minute traces of blood.
we checked her lungs they're clean.
which means her lungs are fine.
why would it give up?
complement factor-h deficiency. but if she has that she's dead. no way to fend off bacteria. she'll get one infection after another until her body shuts down.
you felt good yesterday and then you almost suffocated.
i think it could be. if we find it our hope is that we can treat it.
we wont know anything until we do the test. addie this all looks really scary but you'll feel nothing ok?
macular biopsy was negative which means you're wrong. there's no complement factor-h deficiency.
so why did we do the test.
but negative doesn't prove you wrong.
an autoimmune problem makes more sense.
if it's autoimmune she can live but we have to give her steroids now before her heart ruptures.
if there is a problem she can tell us what she feels.
ready?
doesn't mean you're right. you predicted cardiac arrest instant cardiac arrest.
i'm sure you'll see that gratitude in her eyes when you tell her.
your head still hurt?
[staying professional] any problems concentrating in school lately?
the rage and pain could be caused by a parasite. does he eat a lot of sushi?
any changes in behaviour since the new diet?
i hate this... kid.
you haven't met him.
the rest is bumps and bruises accounted for by the seventeen fights he's been in this semester.
mri was clean. no frontal lobe tumor. and the tox screen showed no trace of coke or amphetamines.
fifty bucks to whichever of you steps up and treats this brat.
fine! you do it.
cameron's should suffice.
cluster headaches can persist for years cause irritability or even hostility towards others.
if these treatments work it could...
yeah.
[understanding] i-i'm pretty sure i get it.
blood thinners and tms had no effect. it's not cluster headaches.
normal treatment didn't work. abnormal treatment didn't work.
new research shows that a chemical component in the mushrooms can be...
we'll be monitoring him but cardiac arrest is possible.
nate how's the pain?
your head nate. we need to know how the pain is.
deal with it.
[under his breath] shut up.
[in disgust] oh for god's sake.
what're you doing?
but wrong about what caused them. vascular problem in a major artery wouldn't cause hypogonadism.
[scoffs] yeah that makes sense.
doesn't even need to. the two of us can handle it. craniopharyngioma fits the symptoms.
yeah but it'll be a lot easier if he...
[turning] i'm gonna give him a sedative.
he's jaundiced. his liver's shutting down.
[voice-only] we started him on sodium polystyrene sulfonate.
his liver's operating at about twenty percent and deteriorating fast.
liver failure can cause hypogonadism head pain. altered mental status leads to the personality disorder and rage. all we need to do is figure out what caused the liver failure.
no. ceruloplasmin's normal.
could be a narrowing of the bile ducts. primary sclerosingcholangitis.
[emphatically] no. blood tests were negative.
his mother would also be sick.
he was raised a vegetarian.
he started eating red meat a few months ago.
need to see how your liver processes the proteins.
it has to be prepared here so we know there's no chemicals or preservatives that could affect the test results.
[snaps] shut up!
[advancing threateningly] either you start eating or i'm gonna strap you to this bed and shove these down your throat one-by-one got it?
[into intercom] nurse full set of body restraints.
[getting in nate's face] trust me. it'll be a lot less messy if you do it yourself.
we mess with his blood sugar we could set off another rage.
what happened?
as soon as we get a urine sample we can leave you alone.
nate you need to get back into bed. right now.
[sarcastic] that would mean someone agreed to sleep with him. plus his serology is negative.
ten percent of males in this country have elevated...
we've been stuffing him with meat and his kidneys are shot. of course his uric acid levels...
[looking at monitor] no markers for hepatic fibrosis. nothing for mcadd.
[not looking up] i heard.
and you think it was me? [chuckles] god... you think i... sabotaged foreman? i don't even want him here.
then why would i do...?
so everyone's a suspect because everyone wants to help house. except for me. i'm a suspect because i'm a petty vindictive jerk?
you actually think i would do something like that?
[firm] it wasn't me.
negative for von gierke disease. [remembering] and it's tuesday.
[mad] i like you.
found something.
he's got a partial hprt enzyme deficiency. means he could have kelley-seegmiller syndrome.
kelley-seegmiller explains the aggressive personality.
kelley-seegmiller carriers self-mutilate when they're stressed.
[facing her] his vegetarian diet could have limited the purines in his system slowing the disease's progress.
wouldn't alter his personality.
nothing explains this constellation of symptoms. we've gotta be missing something. maybe the kid lied about some medication. maybe he's hiding something.
i don't know because he's... evil?
substances called amyloid proteins build up in the body's organs shutting them down. it's a fairly rare disease. and i'm afraid it can be fatal.
he needs a bone marrow transplant. dr. cameron is searching the donor bank. we should test you as well.
you sabotaged foreman's job interview didn't you?
everybody's chasing ghosts over this. which means either nobody did it or somebody wants everybody chasing ghosts. now who does that sound like?
because as long as foreman thought you were guilty he was gonna be useless around here.
you cost him a good opportunity and gained nothing.
if you want him to stay tell him.
you do. and the point would be to make him feel like he's wanted.
all right then. it'd make him feel like maybe you weren't evil.
he needs that.
talk to foreman.
rheumatic fever would explain the skin rash.
they were lost at sea for 3 days; maybe dehydration caused the kidney problems.
concussion during the shipwreck.
she's from a dirt poor country in the tropics infectious disease and parasites are the most likely cause of unexplained pain fever and skin rash we might as well start there.
why? he hasn't complained of any pain.
you've pain?
any blurred vision?
she is with another doctor who is part of doctor house's team.
it's the way it works with doctor house.
he doesn't care. i'm sorry but that's who he is that's who you risked your life to see. and you made the right choice.
the husband has a pulled muscle in his shoulder but none of the pains or double vision. he does have a fever fungal rash cough and elevated bilirubin. foreman's not going anywhere. [house turns around from checking something on the computer to face chase]
he doesn't really want to leave and you don't really want to let him. you'll cave just like you did with cameron.
he may not want a date but he does want... something.
then you'll just lie.
maybe. or maybe he'll just see what he wants to see.
her kidney problems aren't connected. her husband has the same issues.
if we're going to take that approach then we might as well just throw out everything we got from the husband and start over.
well done? is that what you think he wants? a pat on the head?
and too old for osteogenesis imperfecta.
cancer's a long shot.
infection could do all that too.
because you know the non-existent medical records confirm that the brilliant doctors in cuba treated her for infection? or because you're trying to kiss up to foreman?
you were the one who said that it's possible for two people to have the same symptom for two different reasons. [to foreman]
right and then you said we should do something productive like breaking her arm?
of course he didn't.
this isn't going to work! he's not a moron you can't just agree with everything he says for two days and hope he forgets the last three years and how much he hates you!
i don't really care if foreman stays or goes but--
wha... what because i yelled at you?
[hesitates for a moment] fine.
house fired me.
time for a change was the official explanation.
excuse me by the humerus [he points to the results of a scan] she's got a hotspot.
hey. you look great.
the why doesn't matter.
its... its okay. he's right; it's time for a change. you were right too the whole it's tuesday i like you... it was silly. oh don't give me that look don't feel sorry for me. getting this job was the best thing that has ever happened to me everything about it. and losing it? well i... think it's... gonna be good too.
have you got time for a drink or something?
[shrugs] yeah.
hi.
uhh... no it's monday.
