dr. house we are in the middle of a meeting.
stacy it's house. i know you can handle it.
if you have a problem working with stacy you should have said so.
how do you even know about him? you don't have access to the hospital's mainframe.
you stole my password?
well i have already assigned death row guy to dr. nolo.
you are addicted to pain pills.
dr. nolo is a board certified cardiologist.
how badly do you want this?
don't bend over for the soap. [she hands him the file.]
house!
it was just a consult! you expect us to shut down an entire floor for this guy?!
stacy?!
take him back to prison. now.
your death row guy's still here!
oh yeah? cause i'm figuring that you still think he's sick.
i'm the client you moron. stacy has a duty to this hospital.
i'm sending him back to prison.
court order says he has to be declared healthy. doesn't specify what doctor needs to make that declaration. [cuddy leaves and house goes to follow.]
[bored] what is it clarence?
would you describe it as a shooting pain? a throbbing pain? or maybe an imaginary pain because you don't want to go back to prison?
oh so everybody lies except a convicted murderer. [cgi shot of some nasty stuff in clarence's bowels. ew. house removes the covers to reveal blood flowing out of clarence's nether regions. more ew.]
take some claritin.
balls are in your court doctor.
exam room one.
exam room one.
are you high?
it's wednesday.
you're actually talking about killing her.
oh well in that case go ahead. why are we even talking?
we need fda approval for any surgical technique that's used for diagnostic purposes.
not invasive? you're killing her.
make sure the mom understands that this is a million to one shot.
hey alfredo. you done already?
mexico playing argentina on tv?
for six years alfedro. you can't lie to me. i'm throwing a dinner.
party's tonight. it'll rain. i'm going to have to put buckets on the dining room table.
i'll tell you what. you take off. but if it pours into my guest's wine glasses
spinal cord seems intact. take a deep breath.
try. breath sounds bilateral. i don't think he has a pneumothorax.
that and probably a broken rib. tell me when it hurts the most.
your two little fingers are darker than the others.
how long have they been like that?
judging by how it looks he could lose his hand.
thank you very much. this guy's been working for me for a long time and i--
i'll get started on the blood tests.
you have clinic duty. i still know how to handle a patient.
one-handed handymen aren't in big demand.
you think i'm an idiot?
all this from falling off my roof
we need something stronger than heparin. human activated protein c.
well how many of his limbs have to be at stake for it to be severe?
he could get better.
do it.
i know. i think he's trying to protect me.
i overruled him. he's the best diagnostician in this hospital and i overrule him.
he also pointed out that i haven't been a real doctor in years.
where was the bleed?
the trauma from the fall could cause actuate respiratory distress syndrome.
it would cause lung infiltrates and maybe fever and conceivably the cyanotic fingers.
i thought it was just asthma.
the blood work will show us which type of pneumonia it is if<U+0097>
it's alfredo. and i can handle getting a key and<U+0097>
no furniture polish no paint thinner nor anything else worth sniffing.
four of them did. the question is why did i hire him?
ah i was still an undergrad but yeah i knew him. he was already a legend.
my god you're subtle! anything else on your mind?
more cockroaches.
beautiful.
patient's lung function is declining rapidly. levaquin's not working. he obviously doesn't have garden-variety pneumonia.
guess what he does have.
he has streptobacillosis.
it fits the symptoms perfectly.
what sink?
you broke into my house?
you had no right to invade my privacy. there was no medical reason for that whatsoever. and there was certainly no moral reason for it.
oh damn. you're right. the focal consolidation makes fungal pneumonia far more likely.
yeah. your point being?
well how's he doing?
twelve?
alfredo wants you to finish school.
manny i have known your brother<U+0097>
proof that my brilliant idea of giving him amphotericin is killing him.
maybe we were right to begin with. his problems are all caused by dic precipitated by falling off my roof.
we're talking about cutting off a kid's hand.
are you being intentionally dense?
i think it's premature.
all of his symptoms are caused by his underlying problem and the medicine we gave him.
you're the diagnostician.
his hand still has an arterial pulse.
you are being pretty aggressive about destroying a man's livelihood.
he lose that hand he loses his job. all of his jobs. he's not like us.
he loses his home his kid brother drops out
i should be the one to tell the family.
your hand is dying. the bacteria are eating it. when they run out of food there they go somewhere else.
unfortunately no. we still have to find the disease that's making you sick to begin with. but you won't die of gangrene while we're looking.
well maybe manny doesn't have to quit school. maybe you can
yes.
i wanted to be a doctor from the time i was twelve.
i graduated medical school at 25 pissed off that i was second in my class. chief of medicine at 32. second youngest ever first woman.
if i had been alfredo's doctor<U+0097>
i insisted on giving him protein c. we had to cut his skull open. i insisted on amphotericin; killed his kidneys. i missed the pneumonia. completely. i would have searched his house and ignored mine. i would have watched him die trying to save his hand. [closes her eyes] oh if i didn't have house looking over my shoulder[she shakes her head]
i'm saying house is right. i'm so anxious to get ahead i haven't been a doctor. in years.
yeah that's why we're doing this.
his o2 stats are down to eighty-eight. his lungs are giving out. he needs a ventilator.
but the organ failure is gonna kill him.
it's perfect. except for the little fact that we're already tested for endocarditis and he was negative.
no! that will just make his clotting problem worse.
alfredo is twenty.
what are you doing?
we just cut off his hand.
it's not happening.
why didn't you say you spoke spanish?
the fact it doesn't fit your theory doesn't make it a lie.
she doesn't know what you're talking about.
what the hell are we looking for?
ah
if a bird is infected you can get psittacosis just by breathing his dust.
your asthma made you vulnerable. you're gonna be all right now.
he thanked me.
we cut off his hand. if we'd figured it out earlier<U+0097>
i never figured it out at all.
what do you want house?
we'll settle. he's got a stub where his hand used to be. we have insurance. case seems pretty solid to me.
you figure a perverted sense of guilt makes me a good boss?
house i'm not naive. i realize<U+0097>
dr. sebastian charles collapsed during a presentation at stoia tucker.
wow. is there nobody you admire?
he thinks it's tb. [she hands him a chart.]
he wants a second opinion.
what is it?
you've outdone yourself.
cecelia carter remember her?
she was just in my office crying because of the way you treated her.
i get that you like to shock people. stun them out of complacency out of stupidity. but this woman thought she had cancer she had a lump in her breast! what were you trying to accomplish?
you're right.
apologize to her before the end of business today. [she leaves.]
he's refusing tb treatment. you don't think he has tb ergo you should care less.
and what do you want me to do about it?
have you apologized to cecelia carter yet?
sebastian has called a press conference for 3. he's asked me to be there to confirm the diagnosis and the prognosis.
of course i am. it couldn't possibly be that i think he's right and i'd like to be a small part of what he's doing.
totally. [she leaves.]
[on tv] x-rays are negative so he's not contagious at this point his condition's currently stable <U+0096>
what are you trying to prove house? [foreman takes house's chair and grabs some of wilson's chips.]
i want everybody out of here now!
get them out! everyone i want everyone out of here now! [nurses rush in having to manoeuvre past the tv cameras. cameron gets the paddles.]
i've got sinus rhythm.
how's everything?
oh what did you do?
how's the patient?
as long as he hasn't gotten any worse. we're treating him for pesticide poisoning without any proof it was pesticides. i'm going to have hell of a time explaining that to our lawyer.
wow!
[looking at carnell's files] he is not healthy. nausea and diarrhoea were not his only symptoms!
but not disappeared.
what about his low white count?
what happened?
oh i was right wasn't i?
what do you want?
the clinic's closed at night
dinners avoided?
i love their cobb salad.
there is no such rumour.
no one's making you do this house just do what everybody else does lie to them.
only since i was twelve!
trust me your mom would much rather think you have a business meeting than you hate her.
err... speaking at a conference in baltimore why what do you need?
well then you'll be the one getting the subpoena.
take the test to the kid.
then take house to it.
tell house his parents called. said they were coming in early. he'll go anywhere just to avoid them [walks into her office]
[smug] yep!
[suddenly walks in] you don't have to lie to him kid's on his way here.
yeah by vomiting blood. ambulance is 10 minutes out.
house got a patient
we just admitted a world class cyclist
yeah i'll get right on that [deadpan]. jeff forster respiratory arrest at 30 miles per hour.
didn't know you were behind on your pointless paperwork. o2 stats are in the--
er checked for lung infiltrates nothing there
oh right yeah she's still got a thing for you making it impossible for her to deal makes perfect sense. except for the pronouns!
he's not denying the drugs.
i'm thinking he's actually sick.
jeff forster this is dr--
plot twist!
dr house is a firm believer in good old-fashioned hard work.
no it's not about judging it's just that on a dating service you should post a photo.
i have to go. [puts down the phone]
no no not a problem i was just... err... accounting.
[checks the computer] jeff forster... a whole day huh?
your client's had a muscle biopsy a full blood work-up and he's scheduled for a lumbar puncture at 10am tomorrow.
mr lucas is dead.
jeff is used to doing whatever he has to do to be first doesn't he?
you've got a leak. the press is all over the jeff forster story.
responsibly.
the point is you're his medical team. he's threatening to sue.
go see stacy.
you need a lawyer go see stacy. you hit a patient.
of course you didn't go see stacy.
i'll pass that along; make sure the er takes him off it. go see stacy.
two family members assaulted.
you baited him.
you flooded his gut with a parasite he could sue. go see stacy.
that's it? okay? no name-calling? no squawking? no rending of garments?
hey.
did you speak to chase and house yet? the disciplinary hearing.
tomorrow. scheduling disaster you don't want to hear it. you gotta get the boys' okay to move the hearing up and you gotta do that whole legal advice thing.
i'm asking you.
stop looking for whatever you're looking for. for the last month house has been crowing that you can't work with him because you're just swooning in love.
well if you can't work with him it amounts to the same thing.
because 40% of our lawsuits last year were about house. you can't work with him you can't work here.
forget it. we can't give a liver to a woman this sick.
there is no point in giving a new liver to somebody who also has vasculitis.
and kidney damage.
your point beyond just trying to make chase wet himself seems to be that the hospital faces liability here. well thanks for clearing that up. i still need a medical reason to list her.
start praying for a 12-car pile-up on the turnpike 'cause we're not exactly swimming in livers over here. [she signs the paper.]
just been served with papers. actually paper; one page. [she reads it.] defendant princeton-plainsboro hospital and dr robert chase; blah blah blah. medical malpractice negligence; blah blah.
punitive damages in the amount of 10 million dollars. [passes the paper to stacy.]
she had cancer how could she--
are you buying this?!
they contacted me about an hour ago.
dr. house meet your new boss.
right those licensing board folk love to play dress-up and pretend.
well you make a pretty convincing argument.
yeah we have a pecking order here: if cameron kills someone chase takes over. there's a flowchart in the lobby. for the next three weeks you answer directly to dr. foreman.
[to foreman.] if there's a screw-up it's your screw-up. you won't have dr. house to fall back on.
apparently he's making you miserable. that's impressive.
no. for the first time in six years i'm getting copied on experimental tests and procedures. clinic hours have been logged and completed. you've given me four months of house's dictation so i can finally bill insurance companies <U+0096>
well way to go! now everybody's getting what they need even house! he gets to play mad scientist and this department runs smoothly.
well maybe longer. would you be interested if this wasn't just pretend?
i just processed your patient's discharge papers. she's on her way out now.
except for the part where house went behind your back and ko'd the patient with insulin and colchicine.
and i'd be just as wrong. what house did was insane but he saved her life.
he got her to admit she's got a problem. she's agreed to outpatient treatment. he gets lucky a lot.
well you've got two more weeks in charge. hopefully the next case will go better.
[walks in.] need your advice what's the best diagnostics department within 60 miles of here?
we' aren't here. house is in baltimore lying to medicaid about his billings.
you are not house.
because it's temporary and because i was ordered to.
oh come on! you're going to diagnose him without meeting him? prove that you're as brilliant as house?
emt's report - patient struck his head and is suffering from aphasia.
you're pouting.
it's fletcher stone. wrote 12 books? exposed three administrations? before he exposes us--
thank you.
oh god. [rolls her eyes.] house is easier! [she throws the file down on the table.]
how's the patient?
where are you going?
oh well i'll join you and you can bring me up to speed.
that's perfect. seems like you really narrowed it down over dinner! here's the plan we talk to house--
if i'd known you'd be out of contact--
right. so far only 3 organ systems have failed.
fine. call me when you're done. [she walks to the door but then leans against the wall. she crosses her arms and waits for the ducklings to continue as if she weren't there.]
you woke me up to lie to a patient's wife?
tell me if it is your aim to sell me the same crazy ideas that house does how are you an improvement on house?
he's actually on time.
something's happened.
whatever it is can it wait?
uh an egomaniacal narcissistic pain in the ass. same as before you left.
what happened in baltimore?
right.
oh god stacy...
are you seriously thinking about leaving mark?
and you want me to tell you it's okay?
you left him for a reason.
you can't cancel the surgery.
you have no proof the birth control pills caused this you have no proof she's even taking them.
or we can forget the surgery let the tumor grow and kill her.
here's what i think she's gonna say. [beta comment: doing a dang funny stacey impression.] oh i love greg. but if you go against a patient's wishes you're calling her a liar. and if something goes wrong i end up in court having to defend the big mean doctor albeit with dreamy eyes who wouldn't believe the nice suburban mom. and even though his cane makes me melt do the damn surgery. [she sits down scoffs and rolls her eyes.]
what for?
what lecture?
who is dr. weber?
[she looks immediately suspicious and takes a look at the memo.] where is my assistant?
when?
seriously?
well when she gets here fire her.
[walks in.] did you issue this memo?
[has no idea what she's meant to see.] congratulations the patient that has been in a coma for 2 years and counting is still in a coma. this is not my signature; i don't know anything about this guy. i'm supposed to introduce him have lunch? [lots of red lights on the screen now.] the coma patient has a migraine?
that's a migraine increased flow velocity in his cerebral arteries.
you induced a migraine headache in a coma patient?!
have you even read an ethical guideline?
did you sign this?
thank you for all coming to today's lecture by dr. phillip weber. who is our guest today at our hospital to talk about... [she obviously doesn't know.] headaches. dr. weber is at the weber center for pain. that makes sense. [mutters as though she is trying to remember something.] weber weber. erm so please welcome dr. weber.
[walking in.] hey did you drop acid?
to annoy me or maybe because you're miserable or... because you... want to self-destruct. pick one.
cameron is worried about you. i told her that lsd lasts up to 12 hours; if you were functional she must be wrong.
does it?
(she tries to hand him a file as they walk past.) house. (he ignores her.)
teenage super model. presented with double vision sudden aggressive behavior cataple--
where's house?
who's covering?
hi
wish i knew. what's the problem?
and its so personal he didn't bother writing anything in your chart.
what is?
fine. you can wait.
i'll tell you what. i am gonna give you dr. house's personal pager number.
find a way to kick up the contribution. (she hangs up the phone when cameron enters.) what did house do now?
(enters the mri lab.) house.
are you sitting on evidence that your patient was sexually abused by her father?
don't worry. i have contacted child services for you. i let you get away with more than anyone in this hospital. shielding a child abuser isn't covered. (inside the mri machine he mimics her.) cooperate with this investigation or ill fire you.
i'm not in a giving mood.
if your leg hurts take your vicodin.
morphine is extreme even for you.
get one of your lackeys to do it.
that you're on the road to becoming a junkie?
well i agree with him. i'm going home.
what are you doing?
i'll get a syringe.
how's the patient.
calling her him slash her isn't really helping.
when did the pain start coming back?
about an hour after you solved the case.
same dosage?
it wasn't morphine.
it was saline i gave you a placebo. (she leaves him standing there looking contemplative.)
he's 66-yrs-old.
he's saying that hearts are a scarce resource. we obviously have to choose criteria--
and thank you doctor house. unless anybody else has any further questions we will now go into private session.
mr neuberger has every right to take his wife off the ventilator.
which became invalid when her organs were turned down.
nicely played.
house don't you think that's a little manipulative?
[to a passing nurse] find out where house is.
here. [hands him a file] it's mrs. lambert's herpes test results.
you've told more than one patient his wife is sleeping with his daughter's karate teacher? you want to stir the pot you have to clean up the mess.
she's coming in at 5:00 don't make me come looking for you.
and don't be calling in sick or saying that your team needs you for some kind of emergency consult.
he'd give his own mother herpes if it got him out of clinic duty. [she leaves.]
absolutely not.
yes that she doesn't want some lunatic doctor searching her vagina with a flashlight.
shut up. both of you. and stay away from his wife. sorry i'm not giving you permission to assault someone.
mr. and mrs. lambert's appointment was over an hour ago.
don't even think about dumping this on my lap.
i'm sorry there is no test <U+0096>
dr. house you know you can't get herpes from <U+0096>
wow. not bad. [house looks at the ring and the music of epiphany hits again.]
i was wondering when you'd get around to my panties. she's had 4 days of work-ups. they've tested everyone who came anywhere near that room everything in the room.
mom was in the room within seconds.
these are your big ideas? somebody's lying?
notify local hospitals cab companies the state troopers and local cops. any security officers off duty are back on duty.
[turns to the parents] i'm going to need some pictures. and go through those drawers. [foreman does so cuddy gets back on the telephone] and i want at least 2 people going over the surveillance tapes.
[looks at what foreman took out] are those all her clothes?
she's obviously still in the building. so where did she go what does she want?
she didn't take her phone.
we're checking for spinal lesions from leukaemia.
house get out of here we have to re-intubate her and get her into the mri.
except that ticks aren't usually invisible.
either that or you stressed her into heart failure. bp's dropping. heart rate 47.
she's going to need a trans-venous pacing wire. ok magical tick hunt is over! [she pulls house away] only real doctor stuff now.
the only thing i know for sure is that your daughter's heart won't last another 20 minutes without treatment.
stop talking to them! [to a nurse] page borsisky in cardiology and get her team down here stat. [to another nurse] get them out of here get house out of here too. dr wilson i could use your help.
she doesn't--
inamrinone can cause arrhythmia and thrombocytopenia.
house get out of the elevator.
you got her?
[to the nurses] get maintenance up here right away.
dr foreman's an excellent doctor; he'll be able to handle it.
[shares a look with wilson] i'm sure he must be mistaken. [wilson nods thoughtfully]
what are you doing?!
foreman let's get her into the icu. [they wheel melinda away followed by the parents. house hobbles out of the elevator grabs his cane still on the bed then lets them take her away to the icu. he drops the tick into someone's cup and starts taking off his gloves as wilson drops in beside him]
call.
my stack's bigger than your stack. [house checks his cards again] you in or out?
well then you'd probably have an edge over a gorilla but not over me.
women are evil you're right to drive them away. call fold or raise storytime can wait!
i call.
err oh i know him what's the problem? [to house] i'm all in. [she shoves all her chips to the centre of the table]
that sounds like gastroenteritis and dehydration. order fluids and i'll take it on my service. bet's to you house.
don't play games. you gonna call?
i'm sorry. house it's gastroenteritis. i'm not going anywhere. [to wells] put the order in and have someone tell alan and sarah that i'll be up when i'm done. [to house] you in or out?
oh! [she puts down her cards face up] stone cold bluff! you might want to spend a little more time paying attention to your cards and a little less time staring at my breasts.
is that house? tell him that the blinds just went to 20-40 and he's running out of chips.
are you talking about me?
call. [flips her cards] two pair. show me your hearts.
ohoho! yes! [sweeps all the chips she's won in]
tell house the patient is about to kill the doctor.
i fold.
tell house if he wants to play cards he can get his ass back down here and play.
it's over in less than 2 hours. which means you either have 3 of a kind or just 3's. i'm guessing 3's. i bet five hundred.
i'll... call. i'm betting you have a pair of threes but even if you have three it's not going to beat trip nines.
i got called away. by the angry parents of a patient. there are three of you here none of you had the sense to stop him to pick up a phone and call me.
well if he's brain-damaged they might still be a little ticked.
you had to do it to diagnose esther. you may have killed a 6-yr-old because you're obsessed with a woman who's been dead for 12 years. sometimes you lose house. you're not god!
no but you're done with him it's my case now. go home go ride your motorcycle go brood in a dark room just don't go near ian again. [she storms off]
you come up with anything?
[stands in the doorway for a brief moment then loudly shuts the door.]
you've seen one patient in the last two hours.
move him into his own cage.
[walks to the other side of the examination bed hands him the file] twenty-five year old female with sleep issues.
she's a little bit more than upset. she hasn't slept in ten days.
give me a little credit i know what gets you off. she took the pills to sleep not to kill herself.
they didn't work. she stayed awake even though she downed the whole bottle.
and the longest anyone has ever survived without sleep is eleven days. which gives you about 22 hours. [exits]
inexplicable rash on a patient's scrotum you need me to look at?
that's very generous. this the sleepless girl? what's she got?
i suppose i should have figured that out when you said she needed a new liver.
you don't have a diagnosis.
let's just skip the part where i say this is insane.
if she wants to be an idiot it's her call. you don't need me. have one of your team walk her through the process.
you're concerned about the ethics of this? what's going on? what do you know?
but you know something. and it is relevant.
i assume this information is in the medical file.
this hospital's file.
these tests and the counseling normally happen over weeks sometimes months.
the most important part we're skipping is time. time for you to change your mind.
not now but with time and perspective maybe we learn things---
either i sign off on this or it doesn't happen. so i need you to listen to me. because there's a chance that you will die on that table.
i need you to lie on your side. and hold your knees.
how's it going?
you want to let me in on what the big secret is between these two?
it was good.
so?
sides? no this isn't dodgeball.
no write another article. kick ass until you're sitting behind some big expensive desk and someone from johns hopkins calls and says 'we're thinking about hiring eric foreman as our head of neurology'. and you can say whatever you want.
ah it doesn't have to be a motive. but it sure tastes good.
[walking up to them.] they've withdrawn permission for the surgery. i put the lawyers on it. her tumor shrank?
i can't even imagine the backwards logic you used to rationalize shooting a corpse.
then it won't be a problem for you to stand beside the casket at the wake and explain why a cancer patient has a bullet hole in his head.
do not turn that on house!
i'm sorry.
i wish i could
a thin slice of joe's brain could also cause a public health crisis.
don't downplay this house. you put both of them in isolation for a reason. joe's death elevates the situation to a biosafety level 3.
i called the cdc.
we don't have the proper equipment for you to be really really careful! you can do whatever you want to foreman but the cdc will do this autopsy.
i told them how urgent this is <U+0096>
we'll have the results in three days.
well you have 36 hours to figure out which one it is.
[walking up to house] foreman you can't do it! you'd be in violation of <U+0096>
[to a nurse] you <U+0096> i need you to suit up. get that equipment away from dr. foreman. [foreman grabs the tools.]
foreman we don't even know what kind of contagion we're dealing with.
it's dangerous!
there are other ways to diagnose you.
i am warning you do not <U+0096> [foreman starts to chip away <U+0096> at the bed.]
he's blind.
one afternoon and you're on pace to set the record for most patients seen in a month.
for the past three hours i've been on the phone with the cdc while you are wai <U+0096>
they promised to expedite <U+0096>
it's tough to treat your patient when you're not even on the same floor. go clinic is covered.
go to your office play with your ball write on your whiteboard insult your team do whatever it is you do to figure things out.
keep avoiding foreman's case until he dies. then i'll drown in guilt.
house! uh what is this?
yeah i got that.
mr. foreman i am doing everything i can to get the cdc <U+0096>
-- and my decision to follow public health safety protocols <U+0096>
i'm well aware that it may cost your son his life just as i am well aware that my decision has a devastating effect on family and friends without having them paraded in front of me. your son has an unknown contagious deadly infection. if we don't contain it here even more people could be at risk and i am capable of empathizing with those people too without having them paraded in front of me.
how're you feeling?
because you're a friend. and i should be here.
thank you.
you know i've had no choice.
regulations are clear.
what's that?
and why are you carrying a vial of it around with you?
so you want to infect foreman?
it's legal.
then hire a laywer and challenge it. in the mean time cameron's in charge.
oh shut up house. if you want to do the biopsy do the biopsy. if house tries to interfere let me know and i will take care of it.
and you are in my locked office. again. [she hides the box in the handbag]
it's not a date and it's none of your business.
what do you want?
it's not a date.
nicu is short-staffed.
if chase needs a break from you he should take it.
so... is this a separation or...?
[laughs] at least there aren't kids involved. just have each other to deal with.
do you want kids?
catching up. i mean you know... it's not like either one of us has anybody to run home to.
you don't have dwarfism.
you ran a pcr on me without my consent?
really? it's just hard to access because of this overwhelming sense of personal violation.
no matter how many people you tell otherwise i am and always have been a woman. oestrogen is normal.
you monitor my periods? based on when i get bitchy or...?
i was considering a donation not a party.
right. you two are going to have a lot of fun with this.
bye.
her heart looks fine. er did a full cardiac workup. tox screen's clean blood work shows no infection <U+0096>
the guy who brought the girl in says he knows you. i thought i'd met all your *friend*. i was also wondering if you could take a look at these when you have a chance. [gives him an envelope] no hurry it's just a couple of medical histories one with a minor cancer concern <U+0096>
those are my top two choices for sperm donors. i wanted your medical opinion on genetics.
uh medically or <U+0096>
i'm not going dancing with them i'm looking for healthy sperm. he's got four living grandparents <U+0096>
i'm leaning toward 613.
1284 has a cousin that tested positive for the brca gene <U+0096>
what about the <U+0096>
people can't like classical music?
here knock yourself out. go find sperm that can beat up 613's kids. and thanks for your help.
need you. now.
you didn't tell anyone else what i'm doing?
wilson? cameron maybe you mentioned it to her?
part of the protocol for in vitro fertilization is twice-daily injections of menotropins. i can't do it myself.
no clever comments about bending over?
i'm just not used to house the professional. [house is transfixed by cuddy's behind.]
shut up.
i think the germans had a similar theory about 60 years ago.
i'm pretty sure you've got that.
ow! thanks.
house what are you <U+0096>
i didn't even know you were looking for one nice to meet you. [he laughs complete with snort.]
what kind of medicine are you interested in patrick?
actually i don't <U+0096>
i'm late for a meeting.
get him out of here.
the process is confidential. you violated his privacy! how did you even <U+0096>
i'm not looking for a date i'm tired of looking for a <U+0096> ow! [house stabs her with the needle.]
someone like you?
thank you for the injections.
no. [she leaves.]
somebody like you?
someone like you?
sorry i know it's crazy but there's no other place. the icu stands for intensive care he needs intensive care so do you.
he is handcuffed to his bed he is sedated he is not gonna hurt you.
he is where he's supposed to be. where you're supposed to be.
gillick. why you're going to send him a fruit basket?
it's annoying enough dealing with your vicodin habit. quit upping your morphine.
and you're not in pain?
gillick is very good. your recovery time <U+0096>
that's amazing.
yes. terribly tragically wrong. enjoy the mistake.
get back to the icu before you rip out your stitches and i have to chain you to your bed.
working.
get back to the icu. who uncuffed you?
who showed you your surgical file?
because your patient hasn't had surgery and you don't care about anyone else.
there are plenty of reasons to use <U+0096>
it worked! [house turns.] there's a clinic in germany they've been treating chronic pain by inducing comas and letting the mind basically reboot itself. there's about a fifty percent chance your pain will come back which of course means there's a fifty percent chance that it won't.
to heal you?!
why are you so upset? are you experiencing any neurological symptoms? dizziness tremors hallucinations?
you're not sick <U+0096>
you need to calm down <U+0096>
you were out of control you were shooting morphine <U+0096>
your patient's in critical care he's had a fever unabated for two <U+0096>
you said you weren't having any <U+0096>
if you are doing this to scare me you made your point. next time you get shot i promise to only treat the bullet wounds.
i thought you were going to attack me again.
yeah you were in my face. you were <U+0096>
you came in here with wilson and <U+0096>
no you <U+0096>
