you feel any tenderness back here?
we'll get you an ekg. i'll be right back. [to house] you want me to sleep with him to get him to stay?
i spoke to him.
i didn't tell him anything. i listened.
[she rummages through a drawer then heads back to the patient.] i am not your errand girl. best thing about leaving you —
grief means different things to different people. case in point means very little to you.
you think that's facing up to things?
'cause you haven’t lost anything.
i got a new job and i moved.
so your last day is friday.
you shouldn't go.
house asked me.
i told him to go to hell.
but i think he's right. [he turns back.] you think you're making a rational choice. you think the worst is over. and then... six months later you look back and you realize you didn't know what you were doing.
it gets easier. not in two months. not in two years. but no it never really goes away.
i saw a guy wearing a scarf this morning. the color reminded me of his eyes. we lived 500 miles from here.
then do it. but don't think it’s the right choice because... there isn't one.
what do you think house would send the gentle comfort arrangement or the warm thoughts bouquet? i mean if he wasn't an ass.
she's bleeding and clotting?
she's young. it could be leukemia.
house doesn't whistle because he's impressed. it means he wasn't expecting it. it means he changed his mind at that point.
rule out diffuse process you're stuck with single process affecting just the pancreas.
duration of the seizure?
does your friend have a history of epilepsy?
(to spencer) my name is dr. cameron. you're in a hospital. we’re gonna take care of you. (to thirteen) what’s her name?
house.
(walking toward him) i have a case i think you might be interested in.
a 26-year-old woman had a tonic clonic seizure.
history of fatigue and two years ago she had a retinal vein occlusion.
no she's not. and she has no history of hypertension. (she holds out the file to house which he ignores)
the seizure could be the result of dehydration or something neurological. (she holds out the file again which house takes this time)
according to dr. hadley the patient took the drugs about five hours before the seizure so…
uh apparently she was with the patient last night.
usually in the first 20 weeks of pregnancy and in women who have trouble with their immune system.
it does look more like a heat rash to me.
of course. [she removes her gloves and walks off.]
[returning with the test results] blood work's normal.
tested it twice. [to becca] i'll get you some topical cream for that rash.
there's nothing wrong with her.
there she is. amniotic fluid looks good. good fetal movement. heart's beating nicely. [she leans forward to stare at the image.]
it looks like pulmonary hypoplasia.
if she was born today she'd be in trouble but we're not gonna let that happen. we'll put you on magnesium to prevent labor and steroids to grow the lungs. it's a good thing dr. cuddy brought you in.
35-year-old male — crushing headache and three seizures in the last two days.
can’t.
(holding up the file) severe agoraphobe. the world scares the hell out of him. so we can only test him with whatever we can take to him.
only of being shot. he and his girlfriend were mugged seven years ago. that's when it started.
i talked to him through his door when he had flu last year. i run the community outreach program now.
he agreed to meet with us. but even if i can get inside his house his brain is a black box. (house walks out into the hallway to talk to cuddy) we can pick this up in a minute.
portable equipment can't distinguish a bleed or a tumor. can't see vasculitis.
the only equipment we have is a sonogram and a portable x-ray.
they're indicator minerals. you can't see diamonds so you look for the indicator minerals. i assume the diamond is the tumor or bleed or whatever it is.
you could be very sick. we need access.
just tell us when you are. we're not going away.
(to stewart) i shouldn’t have implied we can wait forever. we've got a whole hospital full of patients. we can give you a few minutes. but eventually if you don't let us in we're gonna have to leave.
no. we've got to search the whole house for toxins. (pause) how about i examine you in one room and my colleagues will do the search?
i'm gonna try to provoke a seizure. i need you to look straight ahead okay?
you all right?
(getting off the bed) sure.
yeah.
you don't seem very happy.
we aren't engaged. (aside to thirteen) moves things along much faster to just give him the answers. (to house) seizures can also be induced through —
a year and a half. through sleep deprivation or —
we spend most nights together. there's a bunch of drugs that can lower a seizure threshold.
his usually.
you would've said interesting no matter what the answer.
house get them out of here.
this is cruel.
normal theta. normal delta. this isn't a seizure.
(holding stewart’s head) mr. nozick are you okay?
house.
(following house) he told you to stay out of here.
we can give him drugs for the blockage.
with the risk of infection chase won't actually —
you just said —
it's unethical.
he gets to make his own calls even if he's asleep.
hey why don't we operate on his infarcted leg while we're at it? who cares if he said no.
we've got to make it look good.
why don't we stay at my house tonight?
that's what i mean. we — we used to split it. what happened?
by five minutes. and my house doesn't look like it was decorated by a drunk rugby player.
well we can discuss it. i hadn't really —
he consented to the surgery. you think he's gonna sue over where?
(to house) why aren't you arguing with her?
(to a nurse) please tell dr. chase the patient's ready for him now. (she puts something in his iv) stewart wake up. it's dr. cameron. if you can hear me blink. (stewart blinks) we were concerned for your safety so we brought you to the hospital. (stewart looks anxious) no it's okay.
it's okay.
i just wanted to keep you informed. i didn't want you to have a bad shock while you were recovering from surgery.
it's okay stewart. calm down. calm down. stewart. stewart i’m gonna sedate you. i'm gonna sedate you.
calm down. i need some help in here! damn it! somebody get in here!
i made the right call. if he'd flipped out after major surgery it would've been worse.
(softly) whaaa?
what's going on between you and cuddy?
seriously. why didn’t you argue with her? she just threw us off the case.
okay.
yeah. i brought in the case.
he's incredibly sick. we don't know —
that's why i left house. you got fired.
i'm sorry. i know i let you down. but you know who else i let down pretty much everyone who's important to me. my boss my old boss my boyfriend. (pause) i did that for you. i'm not gonna let you down again.
worse. drugs aren't working. i think we should do the surgery in his house like we planned.
we prepared the room. we hung the drapes. it's probably ten times as sterile as any mobile operating theater you'd find in a battlefield.
chase doesn't want anywhere near this surgery. maybe you could talk to him.
intestinal atrophy. it's whipple's disease.
that's nice of you.
uh burns are healing fine. he's stable otherwise.
i can’t.
you might have noticed the lack of nurses.
wait here.
your stomach?
new symptom. peripheral neuropathy. got worse on antibiotics. it's not whipple's.
we should run a blood test for celiac.
that's house's point. there's nothing diagnostic about it. he's trying to put the patient in pain force him to come in.
so is the blood test which is painless.
don’t. you know house. you know i'm right.
no. but you've kind of tied our hands. soon as this hits your intestines i'll look at it through an endoscope. stewart i know you don't want to talk about this but… people who get shot often get ptsd. it's nothing to be ashamed of. it's very treatable with drugs and therapy.
i'm sorry. but that's what i mean. i lost someone myself. i know it's traumatic.
(sleepily) no. antibody tests back?
then why are you here?
inconclusive.
(stewart groans) i know it sucks but i need to test your stomach again.
i know. i'm sorry. try to get you on your back and have you open your mouth.
he's out.
anything?
get the paddles. get the paddles!
who are you calling?
he's dying.
(preparing the defibrillator) house if we don't restart his heart…
clear.
i got a pulse. cancel the ambulance. he's stable enough to stay here.
sorry. in the er we like to actually resuscitate dying people not just let them flop around.
taub put in the temporary one.
so we can use the portable x-ray.
sonogram.
he's dying.
(sourly) thanks.
forget it. (she starts to leave again)
why would i keep inviting you over if i didn’t want you there?
how long have you felt like this?
(calling from stewart’s house) i just tried your house. where are you?
bad. vitals are dropping. the abdominal pain keeps getting worse.
you're giving up?
he's on morphine.
i figured you put him on saline so i switched him back to morphine.
yes. is there something that causes abdominal pain that doesn't respond to morphine?
(looking at the scan) just bone.
you think he's got lead poisoning?
i'll start him on chelation. the agoraphobia could it —
but it could have exacerbated the fear.
i know you think that. but your life could be better. you — you — you’d have choices.
about what?
hi.
you were right. about my husband. it affected me. it still affects me.
i cleaned out a drawer for you. like a big one.
i assume foreman needs us and he's worried that if we're sniping we might be distracted.
very.
you can't? don't you work with three other doctors and a grouchy gimp?
nothing's usual for a four-year-old and as fun as this is it feels like we're your goomah.
either you can handle both these cases or you can't. if you can't it's dangerous and stupid.
neither's perfect.
can't see why you're surprised. you push against house he's gonna push back.
you liked this case because he wasn't looming over you. the decisions were yours. only difference now is he decided not to loom. doesn't change the fact that your patient's dying.
munchausen by proxy?
he's eight.
either that or he's off to kill house.
how 'bout someone who's not gonna keep pushing the whack job's buttons until he cracks?
no he's just kidding. he's right here.
if his diaphragm's not working maybe his nerves are freezing up.
classic signs of an upper-lobe tumor.
could be q fever if he's had exposure to goats.
cushing’s causes fatigue breathing problems fluctuating hearing.
this guy's been on 50 different medications. maybe his kidneys should be failing but something's protecting them.
he's been on protein pump inhibitors for years for his stomach pain.
melioidosis. bacteria gets into the lungs spreads to the heart. it explains everything.
is he absolutely sure of that? mexico. costa rica. you've never been —
musical automatism. she could be having a partial seizure right now. you need to get house.
yelling at her is not going to be an effective treatment.
her brain could be misfiring.
[pulling deedee’s hair back] on the other hand look at her. [deedee is bleeding from her ear.] she needs a full neurological work-up.
get house!
you'll be in trouble. on the other hand she's sick.
no kayser-fleischer rings.
kutner. no transplant?
how much time does she have left?
32-year-old male with chronic pain all over.
he’s seen seven different specialists over three years. no diagnosis and no relief.
if i thought you learned lessons i never would've quit.
i think you can help this guy.
don’t attempt suicide with medicine cabinets full of narcotics.
sounds like you don't work for house. a diagnosis that provides neither an explanation nor a cure is by definition not a diagnosis.
which this guy doesn't meet. putting pressure on his pain helps doesn't make it worse. he’s got abdominal pain severe headaches muscle cramps that come and go.
it is not a sign of mental illness to want to be pain-free.
i thought it would help house. seeing someone worse off than him possibly curing a guy who has even less to look forward to.
you gonna pay for that?
29-year-old teacher. she works with special needs children. she —
because dr. cuddy is not here. she's decided to spend some more time at home with the baby for a while. i'm taking over some of her day-to-day responsibilities like babysitting you.
she figured i'd spent three years working for you. i was inoculated.
that's why i took the job.
[to person on the phone] i'm gonna have to call you back. [to house] methotrexate.
fine.
yeah if you think it's right do it.
who?
i'm not gonna play games. if you come to me with a request and it makes medical sense i’ll say yes.
can i return my phone call now?
it was the right call.
not medically no. absolutely no medical rationalization. i had to say yes because house wanted me to say no.
i'm the new kid. he had to test me.
you hired me to do this job. let me do it.
if you're gonna wait you can wait outside.
lisa are you —
what did you want?
don't be an idiot.
stop! we have to assume it's the brain.
no we had to assume it's the brain until we prove otherwise. do an mri t-2 images.
you should be able to see the ms plaques. if they exist you can do your biopsy.
do the mri.
you wanna remove your patient's skull.
i didn't realize that was an ama-approved treatment for ms.
i didn't realize your patient was a horse.
not when it's 30 degrees outside. transmission is by mosquito.
you're asking me to let you cut off the top of someone's head. i need more than i'll know it when i see it.
you have to give me something.
[looking at a vial inside the baggie] these aren't mosquitoes.
acute viral nasopharyngitis? one of her students has the common cold?
so disproving it's her pancreas proves it's her brain?
now i do this job. you brought me three dead bugs and a runny nose.
what do you want me to do? say yes just because you're house?
[handing him back the file] yes.
nerve conduction's 12. 8 meters per second. right within range.
12.4 meters per second. conduction is still normal.
yes because i'm actually familiar with this case.
bp's dropping.
already am thanks. your baby needs you a lot more than we do.
14.3. it's actually speeding up. but her bp's 80 over palp. we're gonna have to stop.
the fact that you're wrong doesn't make any sense or the fact that believed that you were right? bp's still dropping. she's gonna stroke. i'm giving her ten more ccs and i'm putting an end to this.
she's stable. we're finished here. close her up.
can't dose her with anesthesia till the last batch completely clears.
two hours at least.
she'd love this conversation.
her head was open you were asking her questions a baby was crying.
she's incredible.
i quit.
it's not because of you. i approved an insane procedure with no proof no evidence no —
i know. but… i'll always say yes to house. i studied under him. he's in my head. and if you gave anyone else this job they would always say no because… well because they should. house is insane.
i'm sorry.
can i help you?
running the er is slacker heaven. looking for anything in particular?
why?
he's a drunk priest who hallucinated jesus.
afraid you're wasting everyone's time? it's obviously either alcohol or exhaustion.
i admit that i'm too busy to care who you're screwing with. (she walks away)
foreman's a neurologist. that's not where he —
you think they should split up?
wow why don't you save the gushy stuff for the wedding? (to thirteen) house is playing with you. if you let him get away with it he's not gonna respect you anyway.
yeah that sounds a lot more like house. (to thirteen) i know they're looking for someone at mercy. i'll make a call.
and i would've discharged him.
and yet it was a real case and he solved it.
you want him there tonight. (pause) you should tell him.
when's the last time you changed that dressing? [she reaches him and makes a face.] judging by the smell of it i'd say never.
i assume you went over all of that with your team. i also assume they didn't have any brilliant ideas or you wouldn't still be muttering to yourself. this is going to hurt. [she pulls off the old bandage.]
road debris has come to the surface. i'm going to have to scrub it out.
here… this is going to hurt even more. [she gives him a paper cup with pills in it.] take two now two later.
do an lp.
or you could use the lp for something useful. if you find polys it's varicella. lymphs behcet's.
you didn't. i quit. [she finishes and rolls his sleeve down.]
kutner wasn’t murdered.
suicide means you could have helped him. murder lets you off the hook.
partial won’t be enough. she needs a whole liver and he’d never survive the procedure.
[gets it] he dies on the table and you give her his whole liver.
we don’t want you to. your wife needs you to.
is still dying. you have a couple of days at most. but this could buy us enough time to save her.
you can’t. if she knew what we were planning would she be okay?
she’ll be alive. nothing else matters.
you can’t do the transplant.
his fingers have nodules. i think his doctors misdiagnosed him.
obese man with lung cancer — two easy explanations for his heart failure. nodules can mean something else. something curable.
what’s going on? i’m giving you a shot at a cool result. better yet a chance to prove other doctors idiotic.
you figure that out by taking off your sunglasses to the strains of a who song?
kutner hid from everyone. you didn’t get a chance to save him. no one did. run the tests. find out if you have a chance to save eddie.
i need to push back our getaway.
i’m just postponing. o’neill from philly general wants me to get a patient in to see house.
i need to make sure he doesn’t toss the file in the trash as soon as i’m out of sight.
once i’m sure he’s really on the case then we’re out of here. and these legs and every other part of me will be all yours. [she kisses him and leaves.]
he’s seen three different specialists.
i am not shoe shopping. i’m just trying to repay a favor to his referring doctor.
tox screen’s negative. no neurological muscular or cardiovascular abnormalities.
if he was trying to fake an illness why would he consent to be seen by the best diagnostician in the country?
i’m going to be injecting ice water in your ear canal. if the resulting eye movements are at all erratic then the balance problem is in your inner ear.
i think so.
concerned with medicine? let’s fix your body. then you can go back to fixing the earth. this is gonna get a little uncomfortable. [she squirts the water in his ear.]
most doctors would recommend —
that’s normal. sometimes this test causes vertigo [he turns toward cameron and vomits] and nausea.
test made the patient lose his lunch. but his calorics are normal. his inner ear is fine and he still can’t balance himself.
he’s not lying about his symptoms.
wouldn’t show up on a ct or mri.
how much is “a lot” and how long is “lately”?
did you tell the doctors in philly about it?
i’m not sure. the referring doctors didn’t realize that his hiccups were —
with this duration and intensity most likely pathological and it could mean it’s serious.
no.
there is a reason i need to stay with this case a while longer but i can’t tell you what it is.
yes.
no sight of heart or arterial problems but he’s been hiccupping on and off for over a week.
i postponed a trip because i’m concerned about the patient.
you told me to.
i care about the patient and i care about the people who work on your team. they’ve been through a lot lately. i just thought i —
think what you want — that i’m here to get a job that i’m here to wrap you in swaddling clothes.
pathological hiccups plus inability to balance. go.
nothing.
patient is on a jihad against commercial flowers. he’s picketed several nurseries. organophosphate poisoning can cause both hiccups and —
how am i supposed to do a lumbar puncture on a patient with intractable hiccups?
you’re not worried house is gonna be pissed you’re helping me do the test?
how do you think house is doing?
yeah.
which answer would you believe?
all i did was postpone a three-day trip.
ordering iv chlorpromazine.
you wanna get the needle in his spine or you wanna talk?
you want us to stop or not?
i’m spying on you for wilson?
wilson sees you ten times more than i do. he’s a better liar and he wouldn’t have to cancel a vacation to do it.
he’s married?
it’s torticollis. reaction to the chlorpromazine.
leak in his mediastinum could have been caused by prolonged hiccups.
most likely it was there all along. we just didn’t notice it till the other symptoms made it worse.
by myself?
why?
you’re here because of house chase or overtime issues.
well if it’s all right with you i’d rather communicate with chase by communicating with chase.
you… are not concerned about me. you’re marking your territory.
why are you prepping him for chemo?
you’re not even sure that it’s —
[dripping with false sincerity] you’re not at my home. [normal voice] this has nothing to do with —
you are wrong.
[long pause] he’s gonna ask me to marry him. i was looking for some thick socks. found the ring.
i don’t want to say anything. i don’t want him to ask. not now. kutner… we’re all a little freaked out. we go home we just wanna hug someone. we just wanna know everything’s gonna be okay. i don’t want him to propose just ‘cause he’s scared.
and… i’ve been thinking about you. just hadn’t reached the looking stage yet.
if you think i’m the least bit interested in house —
i know this looks bad. and —
i just… i need a little more time.
this… has nothing to do with house.
there you go.
he almost died. he can’t take a few days at home with his family?
you talking about chase?
you teaching commitment classes? ‘cause i thought you were too busy with your lecture on —
i told you i never wanted to dump chase.
i should never have postponed our vacation.
[tearfully] i found the ring in your sock. [he’s listening] i didn’t want you to propose out of some sort of knee-jerk reaction to what happened to kutner.
i’m not. i… i don’t care how it happens. i just want it to happen.
i’m... proposing that… you propose to me.
i’m not expecting. [pause] hoping.
yes.
i’ll take that as a congratulations.
it’s a small ceremony. why wait?
possible prostate cancer came into the er.
chase’s best man doesn’t get here till the day of the wedding so i asked wilson to throw his bachelor party.
no no no. i don’t want — i don’t want you to—
um i’m his fiancé. i can come along and clear this up.
[to foreman] don’t let house get him in too much trouble.
thank god you’re okay. what happened?
we practically do.
no thanks. [pause] i have my husband’s sperm.
we froze it when he got diagnosed.
i used to think if i didn’t find anyone then…
i know. but…
nobody plans on getting divorced. i didn’t plan on my husband dying but he did.
congratulations.
and you don’t?
well that’s… naive. i want to spend the rest of my life with you. i love you. that’s how i feel right now. but i don’t… know.
i can’t know. no one knows.
there’s been a glitch with the wedding. and house will be interested.
patient had his corpus callosum cut to correct a seizure issue.
the seizures stopped after the surgery but he’s having trouble adjusting to a split brain.
[entering the bay where scott and annie are] this is dr. taub. tell him about shopping.
got a minute?
i need someone to bounce ideas off of. someone to be my whiteboard. that’s how you taught me to work. i have three choices. first i can accept it’s over pretend we don’t work in the same hospital have selective visual impairment when we pass each other in the hall. second i can accept it’s over and leave —
third i can talk to him. but it’s not like i have any new fact that i can present and chase has this romantic view of love that reality can’t compete with.
how?
i have doubts. normal doubts. it’s not wrong to prepare for bad things to happen even if you don’t expect them to. i don’t expect my condo to burn down but i have fire insurance.
i don’t wanna be homeless.
that’s not what i mean. i wanna marry you. i got the forms to destroy the sperm.
yeah.
i know.
go.
i said i was gonna do it. i’ll do it.
i want to be with you. maybe i’m not comfortable with it but —
i do have trouble giving things up. for example i never canceled any of our wedding plans. [they both laugh.]
