tb can affect all three organs.
and lymphocytic infiltrate. we tested for lam. it's positive.
(who has arrived from inside the hospital) so send her for a psych eval. what's that got to do with us?
so we're taking this case 'cause you're a fan?
when was your last physical?
the exam would go faster if you would cooperate with us.
you want to tell us why?
we need to observe you overnight.
to see if you have another seizure. (pointing to the observation room) we'll be up there and we won't disturb you unless there's a problem. that work for you?
still no seizure activity. it's your turn<U+0097>
close. house. (pushing the intercom button and talking to house) she's fine. both the e.e.g. and all her vitals have been<U+0097>
house searched her home found she's been eating two cans of tuna a day for years.
explains everything except the fact that it's not. we got her urine and blood samples back. they're normal.
she only asked for a woman to waste time. she's cooperating just enough to get through the psych hold.
her continuous blood and urine test came back. it's definitely not mercury poisoning. clean.
it's not. there weren't any blood or protein markers in her urine either.
she's a writer and a recluse. i'd be more surprised if she didn't
get her out of here. she's got metal in her leg.
she has three screws in her right leg from a skiing accident she didn't tell us about. the mri's magnetic field super heated the metal causing third-degree burns. skin ruptured from internal heat pressure here. (he circles the ruptures on the xray film)
treating the soft tissue injuries in her leg cost us most of the day. we also had to replace the screws.
she wants to kill herself house.
we sampled blood from six different areas looking for any spikes in adrenaline. all of them were negative.
she'll only lie. we're better off not even talking to her.
i thought you said it was about a boy detective.
she's getting worse and there's no sign of a pheochromocytoma. seizures sweating rapid blood pressure and an effusion point to something viral.
we could use your opinion house or at least your attention.
how do we know this mentor character's really alice?
that's... not an answer. it's treatable. we'll start testing to see which drugs she best responds to.
and if untreated eventually leads to paralysis and death.
yeah it'd be nice if you hurry up and hire someone to fill her spot.
there are a couple of people<U+0097>
from where we're standing it looked like sleeping.
we woke you up because it doesn't matter. alice is refusing any more treatment. she doesn't want the surgery.
30-year-old female. severe vomiting and abdominal pain preceded by three days of moderate pain. slightly elevated lfts.
serologies are negative.
that hasn't ruptured by now? it's hepatic fibrosis.
i checked the pipes and the paint. it's not lead poisoning. you got anything?
sorry we should all be super-polite in the ddxs fail to correct each other and then treat patients for diseases they don't have.
[scoffs] no. why are you calling me dude?
one i don't have feelings for thirteen beyond friendship. two it's a temporary replacement. and three dude?
the day the patient collapsed she say where she was working?
then why's she got a credit card receipt for lunch from a cafe in trenton?
why didn't you tell us?
you use her maiden name?
call the other hospitals in the area.
get the adenocine.
those broken bones?
is this related to why you were in trenton yesterday?
it would have showed up on the physical exam. do we have to sit here all day
she said he used pesticides. he could have stuck some in her dinner.
house was wrong trying to come up with a complicated reason you hired kelly.
it's actually quite simple. you think she's hot. you want to sleep with her.
i'm just saying if you spend all your off-work time and energy getting laid it's gonna spill into your work as well.
i did glance at her resume. middling grades middling med school.
uh-huh. how long did you interview her?
how much of that was after you decided to hire her? you saw what you wanted to see.
pyrexia. 103 and rising.
endocarditis?
run an echo.
stop. this isn't about chase's mother.
i don't care if he saw her licking a petri dish of bacilli there's no lung involvement.
hey taub. you didn't write up the ac system. did you mention it to kelly?
did you mention it to chase?
whose idea was legionnaire's?
uh house. and that's just off the top of my head.
we hire someone unqualified it's just dead weight we'll all be pulling. me especially.
what do you mean why? because i'm <U+0097>
something like.
i am at a different level.
it doesn't change the fact that you made a bad decision because you want to get laid.
opacity in the left temporal lobe.
give her a break.
i realized if we all just keep pressuring kelly of course she's gonna get stuff wrong. it's irresponsible of me to let that happen.
immature lungs?
her heart looks fine.
do you want me to hire a white girl?
this'll be quick. i've been interviewing people all week. i have it narrowed down to two candidates.
[smirks] uh she hasn't said anything to me about that.
dr. cheng we might need a unit of blood over here.
doesn't seem to have the thick walls you'd expect from an abscess.
that's definitely not an abscess.
house there's someone here i need you to meet. i just hired dr. christina fraser. she's a board certified<U+0097>
house... you're kidding right? i've done my due diligence. she's the best there is.
[angrily] you are such an ass house. you could have made the same point without crushing the hopes of a young doctor who was actually excited to have this job.
bp is down to 50 systolic. you've got to stop the cannulation.
bp is rising. 70 systolic.
bp is dropping again.
the liver problem alone is not gonna mess with the baby's bp. whatever this is it's got to be affecting her heart.
or it could be a vascular malformation in the liver causing both problems.
no surgery. a newborn baby can't handle another trip to the o.r.
could work just as well as surgery. snap those bad blood vessels shut. i'll call house to get approval. [pulls out his phone while taub and chase continue towards the elevator.]
still not answering. we should just start the treatment.
and i assume since you still think we actually did the surgery you haven't checked your messages in eight hours. where are you?
[chuckles confusedly] uh the word is booty.
house we treated for a vascular malformation and she got better!
advance another centimeter and you're in.
[looks at taub] no. it means we were wrong. [pause] it's a melanoma.
clearly something's going on in mom's blood that's treating her melanoma as well as her baby's.
if her immune system was fighting the melanoma it never would have spread.
either it's a trap or it's not. just hire her.
you do realize it's just a metaphorical trap? you'll still have all your limbs. [taub shows mock-relief.] fourth rib about the midclavicular line. you're over-thinking this. house fired my pick sight-unseen. he was never even interested in chase's pick he was only obsessed with how she reflected on chase. dr. cheng is the only candidate he's actually responded to. you wanted house invested. he is. hire her.
shut up and hire her.
oat cell lung cancer.
actually the lung cancer is basically treating the skin cancer. it's why you're not feeling sick. and why your blood's helping your baby.
over the last day your baby's liver tumors have shrunk 15%. projecting forward it would take eight or nine days to completely eradicate her cancer cells.
the cancer probably won't spread in the next nine days but there are other risks. cancer thickens your blood which could cause clots.
senator anderson sent this case to us and personally requested we take a look. that's reason enough for me.
i tried calling him on the brother hotline. he didn't pick up.
our patient's liver damage explains the rash and cryoglobulins we found in his blood but we can't explain the liver damage. shows no other signs of drug or alcohol abuse.
test came back negative. same for hep a and b.
if patients know we're coming they can hide something relevant to their illness intentionally or unintentionally. their knowledge changes things.
yeah what a rube being uncomfortable breaking into a stranger's house.
give her a chance. she's fresh enthusiastic has no bad habits we need to reteach.
is this attitude about her not having an m.d. after her name? because i wonder if it has more to do with her being a brainiac.
i'm not thrilled someone else might be the smartest person on the team now. i can only imagine how you feel.
oh yeah? you find this? (he holds up a big jar of apple cider.)
a jug of unpasteurized cider. it could be tainted with e coli and that's what's causing the liver to shut down.
there are indirect ways of attracting e coli.
he is intimidated by her intelligence.
makes sense. just like e coli. orchards make cider out of apples they can't sell otherwise like if they've fallen onto the ground. like into some cow feces.
you're arguing dugan's politics are a sign that he's mentally compromised?
house i hate to interrupt your ethics debate but we have two solid ideas on the table.
we gotta give masters some pointers help her figure out how to deal with house.
and if we don't help her she's out of here.
not anymore. there's no sign of a tumor. that leaves d.i.c. i'll go check how taub is doing with the blood work.
i guess when you get on in years it takes a little longer to run a few simple blood tests.
you're in rounder shape than me.
you do realize you're two and a half feet tall right?
tonight after work.
we checked your home for toxins and didn't find any. but it's possible you might've been exposed on the campaign. have you visited any industrial or agricultural facilities?
they take you into the fields?
were the windows open? certain pesticides
it's not just your liver we have to worry about. looks like your kidneys are having problems too.
h.s.p. doesn't usually cause clots but it can. and the vasculitis would explain the kidney problem.
game to 11 by ones.
you can have it.
can't hit two in a row.
you can have that shot all day.
one three.
ten seven.
now all we have to do is figure out why masters is making you feel insecure.
firing her was a mistake. we need someone like her on the team keeping us all in check.
we're like the frogs who've been in the pot for a while. we're used to the heat.
masters was right. he didn't want the chemo. he didn't need the chemo.
you didn't like her even before you knew about her morals. it's from the minute he saw her.
it's foreman.
nothing helpful but
in jail. you gonna come bail us out?
i know. the reason you hated masters from the moment you saw her.
that was not the first time you saw her.
don't try to change the subject. did you sleep with her?
you realize we're not gonna drop this.
so you're holding a grudge because she chose a different school?
and why would we want to do that?
have you seen the bride-to-be?
(chuckling) yeah for a while.
i'm guessing your dad wasn't on the forbes 400 and your mom didn't look like a swimsuit model. sorry. that didn't come out right.
it means they don't want you to check their calls emails or texts.
no skin lesions.
leg pain and pseudobulbar affect. he's feeling one emotion while unknowingly expressing another one.
a neuro disorder could explain all his delusions.
paralysis is a symptom of m.s. so are leg pain and pseudobulbar affect.
that's had promising results with demyelinating diseases. it's our best shot.
weren't you just upstairs with
i'm not here to be your wingman.
i didn't come here to get laid.
um
(to the girls) this round's on the bro? (he leaves to get another round of drinks)
at least three.
ugh. i hate weddings.
surprised you've got enough strength to come to work today.
twice?
fool's bet. there's a whole world of angry patients creditors
you're not ready? you said you had two guys helping you move.
sounds good.
um we just did it.
we've got to run this by cuddy.
you're not gonna talk to us?
pupils fixed and dilated <U+0097> an addict found with an empty bottle of phenobarb next to him. how is this a mystery? it's an overdose.
aren't there other ways of keeping masters occupied?
endocarditis.
kaufman's prednisone will suppress her immune system <U+0097> could kill her.
this is nuts. this is way too complicated.
[louder] if the attending doesn't know what she's on the risk of drug reaction<U+0097>
[very loud] this is not about information! we're talking ethical and legal violations on a scale that should make even you puke!
that doesn't mean we should all go to jail to save her! [normal voice] you're losing control because this is your girlfriend's mom.
we stick together he can't fire all three of us.
why are you doing this?
we're doing the right thing <U+0097> stay out of it.
stay out of that too.
you do it?
i met arlene at the same benefit.
conveniently.
so you're just gonna ditch us run off and work on some other case?
i called you three times.
they already did. [picks up an x-ray from the table] here this is what you saw. it's an anatomical variant of the skull <U+0097> the bone in proximity to a blood vessel. there was nothing wrong with him. that was reason g.
i don't know if you're right. i don't care. but we are gonna end up killing this woman if we keep confusing her attending with these secret meds.
we're not talking about simple antibiotics anymore. amphotericin b is dangerous in itself. it's a poison. that's why it kills fungi. it'll give her fever chills<U+0097>
so we have two symptoms: temporary leg paralysis and elevated ck.
her memory's unrelated.
hyperthymesia is known to manifest in adolescence.
to be related it would mean 20 years between symptoms. plus i don't know of any diseases that cause great memory only ones that destroy it. mri showed no evidence of stroke or tumor so probably a toxin.
how'd you fail it? you spend half your life in the lab.
(reading a prescription bottle label) what are the eight types of vomitus?
hey you picked me. you said you wanted a hard-ass.
(looking in the refrigerator) yes i thought you'd want to skip the massive public humiliation of getting fired.
medicine has come a long way in the last hundred years.
patient's file said she lost some weight on a new diet right?
(holding up an empty box from the trash) are laxatives vegan?
(calling from house's office) where are you?
we found a pretty large stash of laxatives. abuse can lead to hypermagnesemia.
house. you still there house?
it's quite possible. but we still have a lot of tests to do before we have a definitive diagnosis.
fast wide-complex rhythm. get the paddles.
we're back to transient paralysis and high ck plus arrhythmia.
it's not a pheo. her blood pressure's fine.
you said you'd be ten minutes.
when are you getting an apartment? or at least a storage room?
i pulled a practice test.
what are you doing? you've got three days.
maybe because you did.
i don't care if you were dying from ebola. you shouldn't have gotten less than a 70. you're nothing but excuses and distractions.
enjoy the movie. kevin spacey is keyser soze. (he gathers up the test materials and leaves)
ms polyarteritis nodosa<U+0097>
(to house) why are you giving me these?
there's an entire department for that.
he doesn't need a tutor. he needs ritalin and a babysitter.
what?
you're limited to this room and marcus's old room.
he tells me he's working with our uncle in florida.
you don't look at or touch anything that doesn't belong to you including food. you will study and you will sleep. and you will not leave my sight until the exam.
this is no longer just about your future. it's about mine too. you fail and i will kill you.
your left on your left.
five minutes left in the break.
that was the deal. we take this break you do a practice test.
you make life and death decisions every day. you work for house. you're under constant pressure and you never choke.
you gotta stop psyching yourself out.
sometimes i wake up in the middle of the night and i can't sleep for hours 'cause i'm worried i got the diagnosis wrong. these things work out.
great.
it's not about the numbers. (taub grabs the results) don't
th-they make the practice tests harder than the actual exam.
who are you calling?
it's not about the cheating. it's about your confidence. you steal that test and you'll never get it back.
you're a good doctor. i've seen what you're capable of. you're fast you're decisive and you're bold. and those are not the qualities of someone who needs to steal a test. there's nothing on it that you don't already know. you just need to know that you know it.
we need you on the team. so we're gonna sit here and take another practice test and we're gonna keep taking them until you've kicked its ass! you can do this! you feel me?
there'll definitely be another time to rise up and turn things around. you'll come back from it.
choreia. rules out the clotting disorder. means we're back to square one.
yeah it's all muscle strain from doing her hundreds of jigsaw puzzles. we should do another mri. a brain hemorrhage would<U+0097>
okay i was exaggerating. dozens.
how'd it go?
look at it this way. it's better to suck at taking one test than to suck at saving people's lives.
wow.
you're giving it to me?
thanks.
(stopping him) hey look um i have the room. you could stay if you wanted to. just until you find your new place. who else am i gonna play savageskate with?
will you shut up?
what do you want us to do house?
sounds like an acquired coagulopathy which gives us a pretty wide differential.
peeing blood after a night on antibiotics means we can move on from infections.
it's a mass not a mystery. they'll do the biopsy then you'll have your answer. just have to wait.
what is it with you and this kid?
how far did you have to reach back for that memory last night? sometimes i hear you in the living room watching tv at 3:00 a.m.
yeah. if only they had some device that allowed you to record them and watch them another time. i'm just saying i don't think fixing this kid is gonna fix you. [he answers his ringing cell phone.] yep? we're on our way back. [to taub] our patient lost all feeling in his right arm.
aah.
so what causes bleeding kidney problems and unilateral numbness?
clots could explain everything including the numbness. we should do an angiogram of his brain see if we can find it.
it's not our problem.
maybe it's no big deal.
angio showed a clot in a branch of his middle cerebral artery. started him on streptokinase to break it up. although maybe we should have just played a few rounds of savagescape 2: the revenge because that's obviously the best way to make someone feel better.
look however bad you think you're gonna be in that room not being in the room is worse. [house can't look at him. foreman joins him on the couch and picks up a controller.] when she breaks up with you you're playing by yourself.
what's going on?
that's what kidney cancer looks like when it metastasizes.
which you know because you stole his flash drive and broke into his house. how's that gonna play?
hopefully with cuddy. she did just get some pretty awful news.
have you seen house?
he left my place last night after you called. no one's seen him today. any idea where he'd be?
and you're not worried about that? he's not good with bad news.
okay
give me a little more dye.
what was that thing?
why is his liver shutting down? that thing in his brain goes away the kid slips into a coma.
closest we've gotten. start him on iv sodium benzoate to reduce the ammonia levels in his blood. run a genetic test for citrullinemia.
can't do mris. x-rays are probably gonna be useless as well. every piece of metal is gonna obscure something.
which is why for now we're gonna handle the case without him.
i said we. you want pretty please too?
house is a vicodin addict. he's been clean for two years.
yes that is very troubling. almost as much as the fact that our patient
sounds good. go ahead.
eng was normal. means his inner ear isn't
we're gonna start rocking the platform and changing your visual field while you balance on just your right leg.
if you start to experience any nausea or disorientation just let us know and we'll stop the test.
if it's not in his ear it's got to be his brain.
that's not from the pipes. it's from your mouth.
there's nothing wrong with his ears but he's got blood in his sputum.
we weren't avoiding you. it took us a little time to think up a diagnostic test no one's ever thought up before.
house as long as you're not here someone has to have the final
sclerae turned yellow. did x-rays. looks like there's a mass in his liver
if you have a point can you please
couldn't migrate that far in one hour. we haven't been sitting on our hands just waiting for your brilliance to kick in.
we can't. he has a titanium plate and a bunch of metal screws.
we can't cut off the top of his head based on a few symptoms that disappear whenever we try to test for them.
and i'm guessing you're about to tell us we need to find something like an e.e.g. to prove
house there's no infection in this guy's brain. ct's clean.
we're not blowing up his heart because we've ruled out his heart. mri and transesophageal echo reveal no swelling no masses no vegetation no sign of anything.
i don't know. get a magnifying glass and
if i inject more there won't be any room for the blood to go through the rest of his body.
yes it is.
slow the heart down<U+0097>
[mopping up blood] leak is too fast.
it worked!?! house it worked.
maybe if we start offering spa treatments.
how's the arm?
we also need you to tell us your real name so we can review your medical records.
don't worry. i don't think the collection agency has an office in the park.
what about those scars and burn marks? (opening danny's gown to look at the burns on his chest) lean forward.
the prednisone has had time to work so we need to give you the odor i.d. test now.
it's baby powder.
it's extremely bad body odor.
gastrointestinal bleeding.
what? she offered.
wow. that was incredible. thank you.
if he has a history of snorting heroin he could have caused the dysosmia himself.
and no larvae or eggs were observed in any of his stool samples.
i kind of have to go. his fiancee did give me a foot massage. and he invited me to be in his wedding party.
yep. he's in it.
you just said you weren't even going.
(spotting something on the monitor) what's that? (taub pauses the scope and a small white spot can be seen on the monitor) that's definitely not a fungus.
you were bleeding because you had 13 pieces of bone in your digestive tract.
these fragments could have perforated your colon and killed you.
what is it?
house are you even listening to us?
the dysosmia and tunnel vision could be hallucinations.
would you slow down! you're gonna get us arrested.
we need to run his dna. he could have early onset of parkinson's.
danny could also die before we get through testing for all the possibilities.
you think cleanliness is making him sick?
danny disappeared without checking out.
he's linked to 13 unsolved murders in ten different states.
what the hell happened to you? why'd you lie about going to rome?
i didn't even know you had a problem.
no reason to be curious unless you're interested in wielding it yourself. you want her to intern here.
rules out adrenal insufficiency. [they reach the diagnostics office.] where's house? he said to meet him here.
but not the loss of consciousness. cerebral vasospasm explains both.
the place they bought them only had one pig. i'm glad you're gonna be sticking around after today.
it's good to add a different perspective to the department. someone who still remembers there are rules other than house's.
find a way around them.
during catheter removal i got a good look at her cerebral midline. pineal gland is calcified.
hypotension. low cardiac output. float the swan.
means she has restrictive pericarditis.
bradycardic arrest. third degree heart block.
we need to get her to the o.r. for pacemaker or plasmapheresis.
you think her seizures are the result of bad karma?
we could ask to look through her office and we could do an mri first.
you bet on foley to beat zachary?
[or dr. fortune according to house] she's not a slut and it's not poison. when we tested her blood and cerebral spinal fluid for toxic exposure it was negative for every poison we could think of.
so do a lot of other not-sick people.
you break in yet?
you can leave. i think taub and i found what we're looking for.
looks like she actually was being poisoned but she's been doing it to herself.
during your history you said you didn't drink at all.
so she's probably telling the truth.
we start her on valium for alcohol withdrawal. [they all stop walking to look at him.] it's the best we've got right now.
give her morphine 5 milligrams iv.
we should restart it. acute pancreatitis from alcoholism would cause this kind of pain.
she's in a lot of pain.
as far as you know she likes being the center of attention and loves her job.
would kill her if it was pyelonephritis but since her urine and csf don't show signs of infection<U+0097>
tell him you admit he's right. let's get him back to work.
no it's not.
thanks. i feel warm inside. right now i'm debating which bad idea i should pretend is a good idea and force everybody to implement.
obsessing over a bet is good? and doing his actual job treating actual patients that's bad?
no just irresponsible and possibly dangerous.
i'll go explain that to the patient.
blood cultures came back negative. it's probably just a benign cyst.
her ekg was normal.
you ignore us all the time. you go on crazy joyrides all the time. but you answer pages you sleep. [house doesn't even look at him.] i know i'm gonna regret doing this but i'll ask anyway. is there anything i can do to help?
my theory is that he's only avoiding us because he really wants to avoid you.
i'm not sure it is. but usually when push comes to shove he shows up.
patient is hanging by a thread and we don't have a clue why.
we could or we could assume that something is seriously wrong with house and try to do something about that. this way even if we're wrong nobody dies.
i'm expanding my theory. he's avoiding you and you're avoiding him and this patient is gonna die.
is it possible something got perforated during surgery?
sounded like a question. just a straightforward inquiry that only someone with serious insecurities would take issue with.
that's not a diagnosis. that's like saying she has a runny nose.
cause could still be a toxin. she must have been exposed to who knows<U+0097>
what do you think?
exactly.
[nods slowly] we need to treat the underlying condition. could be cancer sepsis trauma liver disease hemorrhagic fever<U+0097>
you start treatment?
a yes would have been fine.
any breathing issues?
interesting. it would also be relevant if the woman had had seizures.
again interesting but not relevant.
she doesn't have a history of blood diseases in her family her blood count's normal and she hasn't been exposed to chemical toxins.
we need to get her into an isolation room and prep for a hematopoietic stem cell transplant.
you're saying there's absolutely no chance that anyone in your company is doing any experimental research that you don't know about?
excuse me. we have to go.
found a match. we'll start treatment as soon as we get the hsc from the donor. shouldn't be long.
uh he's in the waiting room.
you can't. it's too dangerous with your immune system this compromised.
i'm sorry. the more people you're exposed to the greater chance of infection.
i know. we're doing everything that we can.
you feeling any pain in your pelvic region?
your genitals they're engorged.
because the seizure's have stopped. because her fever's gone away. because she's improved. by luck.
i don't think the patient cares.
oh. sorry.
(to taub) you two breaking up?
you want her to keep it?
'cause you'd make a crappy dad.
you're too selfish. that's why you cheated on your wife why your marriage fell apart<U+0097>
i know you. the only reason you're sitting in a strip club ignoring the strip club is because you actually are considering it.
there you are. you were in the vip room so long i thought you were gonna pay off that girl's mortgage.
you touched her?
(chuckling) genius. let's go home.
bobby the bouncer sees you standing out here like a stalker he's gonna break open your skull.
you want to get your skull cracked open. you're trying to punish yourself.
you think you're a screw-up because you got a girl pregnant and you deserve to suffer. you don't. you just need some sleep and you'll handle this mess. let's get in the car.
(zipping up his jacket) give me the keys. i'll drive.
i'll get a cab. good luck with everything. (he walks away)
missed a call from house last night. he in?
you forgot about the fourth symptom <U+0097> being completely crazy.
didn't say the crazy wasn't motivated.
i still vote for nuts. we should run a resting-state functional mri to look for increased activity in the dorsal nexus.
like when she read your love letters in the middle of the new museum? yes i read the new yorker.
seriously you weren't really gonna let that guy set you on fire. he was just a plant to get the crowd going right?
no sane person would let themselves be burned alive for the sake of art.
fine. no sane person would let themselves be burned alive to break with the rational.
she got worse in the hyperbaric chamber. it's not c.o. poisoning.
you think that's a symptom? he's in love with her. he was probably overwhelmed couldn't decide what to do.
a few things <U+0097> a handbag flowers stuffed elephant.
how do we know she's actually sick?
she would have let that guy set her on fire for the sake of her work. you think she's scared of a little arrhythmia? she probably huffed paint thinner.
fine. i'll get the c.t.
you're supposed to stay in bed <U+0097> doctor's orders.
pale diaphoretic tachycardic b.p. 80 over 40. internal bleeding?
hold this.
i'm just below the celiac artery.
no blood.
[lifting the blanket to look at her legs] no swelling no asymmetry.
'cause i don't like beans.
[calmly] it wasn't working.
how many of those have you had today?
the patient is a fraud. i found a puncture in the dorsal vein of her left foot.
not heroin. she was injecting herself with her own red blood cells. it caused her heart issues and when her hematocrit evened out we mistook it for internal bleeding.
browser history on her laptop helped. [he hands house a file folder.] she was researching blood doping among other things.
for months. this isn't about creating art in the moment. it's about you. she set you up.
even if she is sick which i don't believe she also says she has a diagnosis. so it's either just a lie or it's just a game.
this is the new house <U+0097> half the leg power twice the irresponsibility?
why do you keep ducking your wife's calls?
i'm sure she just wants to congratulate you about knocking up a 22-year-old nurse.
but you have told her you're not gonna sleep with her anymore right? [silence] how are you planning on letting her know? just invite her to the bris?
yeah. you are all about feelings.
she's gonna find out. it better be from you. you can't cheat your way out of this one.
