who are you and why are you wearing a tie?
yes. i would like to know why she gets a secretary and i don't.
hmm. i didn't know they had a secretarial school. well i hope you took some classes in sexual harassment law. does the word ka-ching mean anything to you? i'm going in now. [house enters.]
what's with hiring a male secretary? jdate not working out?
she's not like you. she can't just walk into a bar and pick up her soul mate in twenty minutes.
you met me at a strip club.
what was i supposed to do? ask her to leave? that's just rude. death row guy. i want the case.
no but partypants does.
hardly counts as stealing; it's a pretty obvious choice.
nolo? well i don't want to say anything bad about another doctor but especially a useless drunk
but i'm not useless. tell nolo i'm talking over.
oh good. i'm sure he'll explore all the usual options for why a guy's heart starts beating so fast it pumps out air instead of blood. wait a second <U+0096> there are no usual options!
i will give you two more clinic hours this week.
the patient's not talking to anybody.
you are going to the clinic for two hours.
talk to cuddy. she's got me going to mercer state prison capital sentences unit i don't know.
good question. what makes a person deserving? is a man who cheats on his wife more deserving than a man who kills his wife?
what about a child molester? certainly not a good guy but he didn't kill anybody. maybe he can get antibiotics but no mris. what about you? what medical care should you be denied for being a car thief? tell you what: the three of you work out a list of what medical treatments a person loses based on the crime they committed. i'll review it when i get back. [house leaves the hospital. chase and foreman exit the lobby which leaves cameron to do the clinic hours.]
relax i've got a great bedside manner.
and yet you're staying out there.
bluish tinge to the fingernails lips he's hypoxic.
it means he's not getting enough oxygen. you know how people say you can't live without love? well oxygen's even more important. he's got fluid in his lungs breathing rate of 50 he needs to be intubated and put on a respirator.
better get one in about an hour or you're gonna lose him.
[flipping open his cell phone] i think the state was a tad more specific about how. [on the phone] this is dr. gregory house. i need an ambulance to pick-up at mercer state prison.
you work fast.
was that a shot?
stop i'm getting turned on.
[in his best scooby-doo imitation] ruh-row!
did you do something to your hair?
come on. you've known me how long and you still don't know when i'm joshin' ya?
no can't. see ironically i'm bound by this court order which your ace attorney got. i have to make him all better before shipping him back for the state to kill him. is it just me or is that weird? anyway we're walking.
somebody left this on my chair. it's clever. forces me to either deal with the file or never sit down again.
you shouldn't have told her that. she's got metastatic squamous cell lung cancer six months tops.
no just guessing. it's a new game. if i'm wrong she gets a stuffed bear.
i love children. so filled with hope.
could be if she didn't already have swollen hilar lymph nodes on the other lung.
exactly. personally i think it's all just new-age crap but from your tear-filled puppy-dog eyes i think i've made my point. now go tell cindy whatever-her-name-is that she's dying. [he walks into diagnostics where chase and foreman are sitting.] tachycardia pulmonary edema likely suspects?
god i've got to learn not to beat around the bush. by dying i meant no matter what we do. very very soon she is going to be dead. is it still to subtle?
yeah well it's not like they make you sign it or anything.
he stays here and we don't treat him he dies and i still don't treat cindy lou-who.
yeah i knew i could count on your help for your homie.
makes sense to me.
the man knows prisons. when we've got a yachting question we'll come to you. okay drugs it is. test his hair blood urine the works. [chase and foreman get up cameron still has her angry face on. house makes an after you motion with his hand.]
what's the differential for being thirsty?
don't do that.
nope. only i get to write on the board. [i'll just take this moment to say that i love that the board is titled dead man dying. all right go on.] so it's not drugs. what else can cause the heart to do wind sprints? you got the blood work back any <U+0096> [stacy walks into his office and looks at him through the wall] <U+0096> thing out of the ordinary?
yeah but which column? could be the result of the tachycardia could be the cause?
why because you want it to be? let's see how well that works with your other patient.
right buff his numbers. don't bother trying to figure out the underlying cause. i thought you cared about patients.
[closing the blinds so he can't see stacy] our job is to diagnose him. what? mommy and daddy are having a little fight it doesn't mean we stop loving you. now go outside and play. get daddy some smokes and an arterial blood gas test. [they all exit. as house leaves he nearly runs into stacy who does not look amused.] wow. that was impressive. okay what number am i thinking of?
i just don't want you working right here in my office. but anywhere else in the building is fine. it's a big hospital.
god i hope that was a euphemism.
i hope that one means what i think it means.
the number was six by the way.
if i hadn't lied to you about cuddy's approval my patient would be dead.
which means two things. most importantly cameron was wrong about the bi-carb and less significantly we have a new symptom. anion gap acidosis. who's chubby? come on pretend he loves puppies. pretend he's a human being. what've you got?
what something else could lead to anion gap acidosis?
well you don't have to ask. just wash your hands before you come back.
oh it's a mnemonic. that makes sense too.
rewind.
yahtzee!
clever entrepreneur like foreman here chops up his meds passes it off as heroin.
who wants to head over to the prison and find clarence's secret stash? [no one looks too thrilled.]
great chase it is.
you've got a prettier mouth. better chance the inmates will open up to you.
he didn't mind. i asked.
why do you think they put tvs in coma patients' rooms anyway?
so leave them a radio. his eyes are closed; who thinks they can see? [wilson sits on the opposite side of the bed.]
oh i know this one. because people are good decent and caring. either that or people are cowards. if i'm mean to you you'll be mean to me. mutually assured destruction.
you gonna get to your point?
i don't care if people like me.
look i know you're friends with her but there is a code. bros before hos man. [he sticks his fist out but his pager beeps. after looking at it -- ] crap.
death row guy is dying.
are you just waiting to call time of death or are you gonna give him atropine?
right. don't know why those diabetics are all hung up on insulin. they're just gonna have to have to take more. [he starts to push the atropine into the iv.]
just get out of here. [foreman leaves as clarence's heart rate starts to climb.]
[from the hospital desk near diagnostics] did you beat any confessions out of anybody?
does anybody do their jobs anymore?
i appreciate your candor. did you even go to the prison or are you just out playing polo?
unless he finished it.
call it off. come on back.
you're dying. [ -- and takes out a bottle of rum and pours two shots' worth.] a man deserves a last drink.
thanks. that means a lot. [he helps clarence to drink his shot.]
[slurred slightly] thought you convicts knew how to drink. you're at least three shots behind. [he looks as if he's going to offer a shot to clarence but drinks it himself.] now you're four shots behind.
little busy right now. getting my drink on.
i could've hit that.
eh.
tell me something i've been trying to figure this out. why does a guy <U+0096> [he gives clarence another shot] <U+0096> who's on death row suddenly try to off himself? i know you drank that copier fluid. it's not as visually dramatic as slitting your wrists with a homemade shiv but it'll do the trick.
[pouring more rum] and that thought just came to you. just like that.
mmm. well look. here's the good news. the copier fluid you drank contains about 90% methanol which is very poisonous and you took more than enough to kill yourself. the bad news is the alcohol you just drank contains so much ethanol that it's gonna bind with that nasty formic acid raging through your body and you're just gonna pee it out. harmlessly.
yes i am. i also saved your life. [and a shot for house! laughing] at least for now.
no you just have a very grating voice.
why are you talking to me?
absolutely. [he walks into the elevator. oh elevator i've missed you! the door of the elevator almost closes but house stops it with his cane and it opens again.] can i trust you?
i still think the patient's sick. i'm keeping him here. now either you can do your job and keep the hospital informed or you can help me make sure the hospital is not informed and buy me some time. [the door closes.]
[entering] she's done everything she needs to do except tell her patient that she's dying. i told you only i get to play with the markers. [he erases what she wrote.] our prisoner has a new symptom.
i'm not buying that clarence is trying to take control of his life by suicide. healthy people don't kill themselves.
guy just filed an appeal in a state that hasn't actually killed anybody in about 30 years.
excellent. explains everything except the symptom that got him here. his heart went nuts before he got stuck in that storage cell and chugged a toner martini. i think there's something going on in his head. check for intracranial lesions brain infections autoimmune diseases do a ct lp full workup. state's paying so go nuts. [they all leave cameron in a huff.]
oh no. now you've left your entire body in my chair. what does that mean you want?
i take it the ct with contrast came back.
biopsy would be.
and definitive. but you don't want definitive you want to hang on to your delusions as long as you can.
but you need me to approve the procedure. must be a bitch. the answer is no.
great. let's treat her.
wow that is remarkable. according to those patchouli-oli selling new-agers it's supposed to be the terminal patient but you're going through the five stages. you just made a completely seamless transition from anger to bargaining. cover two more of my clinic hours and you can have your one procedure. [cameron nods and leaves.]
yeah sorry. just gotta get him stabilized. probably keep him on fluids for a few more hours then off he goes.
figuring requires deductive reasoning. i'm figuring that you did no figuring. stacy just ratted me out right? so much for attorney-client privledge.
right.
whoa can't. court order.
where does it hurt?
well he'd know. let me take a look.
i don't think he's faking this stuff. what do you think doctor? [clarence screams a lot more for emphasis.]
no you had to tell cuddy. she's your boss i get it. hitler thought he was doing the world a favor too.
gandhi didn't march the sea because his buddies asked him too pol pot didn't wipe out the teachers because he wanted to make friends.
i trusted you.
wilson's a fool. i'm an idiot.
it's the only reason anybody does anything.
i wonder. i wonder why clarence killed that second inmate.
everything we do is dictated by motive. [as he erases the white board] why did he kill his girlfriend?
is that the reason he gave?
jealousy. [he writes it on the board.] that gets him sent to prison where he kills inmate number one. why?
revenge. who'd he killed after that?
who had a file full of abusive complaints. probably been kicking clarence's ass for months.
call that one retribution. then he kills inmate number two. anybody know why? [chase looks through the file.] nuh-uh. it's not in there. [he draws a giant question mark.]
it's an anomaly. doctors love anomalies. dark spot on an x-ray bright spot on an mri. killing that second inmate is the homicidal equivalent of blood in the urine. it doesn't fit. i'm interested in things that don't fit. tell me why you did it. your other victims you were almost bragging about. what was different about this guy?
so what's the differential for raging out?
prep clarence for surgery.
oh come on. do i have to spell it out for you? pheochromocytoma. actually i'm not sure how you spell it. [ed. <U+0096> but i do!] but you said it yourself adrenaline. pheochomocytoma sits on top of the adrenal gland randomly spits out oodles of the stuff. it's perfect it explains everything. the tachycardia pulmonary edema the vasoconstriction that caused the necrotic bowel <U+0096>
i love rare. set up an mri. where's cameron? [they shrug.] like i don't know.
i don't even remember. it's just a fancy way of saying small adrenaline-secreting tumor. yeah that clarified it for you. all you need to know is if i'm right we can fix it. just gotta to find it first. we need an mri. it's completely painless for most people.
i assume you got those tattoos in prison. prison tats often contain inks with heavy metals. the mri's basically a giant magnet. it'd suck those metallic inks right out of your skin.
stop squirming. don't make us do this again. big baby.
there's waldo. found it clarence.
keep him in there until you guys see it too. [he leaves.]
clarence goes back to death row.
he's cured.
my god you're right! let's call the surgeons we've got to save that tumor. put it on the witness stand.
[sniffs] you smell that? i think that is the stink of hypocrisy. you wouldn't even consider the notion that clarence's social upbringing was responsible for what he became but now you're sprinting to the witness stand to blame everything on a little tumor.
yeah. see you only overcame one of them. well let's just give clarence a free pass hmmm? which is probably going to piss off all those other pheo sufferers who managed to control their rage attacks and become lawyers race car doctors or even doctors. removing that tumor puts a stop to those random shots adrenaline it doesn't absolve him.
that's not what i'm saying.
everyone's got an opinion. [foreman turns to leave as hallelujah the most overused great song in media begins to play.]
you'll do what you think is right. on your own time. [he leaves.]
uh uh forget it. i'm going home.
boy you must be a doctor and everything!
no the purple thingy on the file means that whoever is one of yours which means cancer which means no way is it two minutes.
mystery of life.
i already did 1000 milligrams. [he sneezes]
why jimmy. we'll talk about this in the morning.
not yet.
so the rhabdo's in her brain. make her comfortable she's got about a week.
the cancer's in remission? which means the hallucinations are unconnected.
no. it'll just fly by.
don't worry anything happens to you nobody's is going to lift a finger. differential diagnosis on your marks get set
whoa. wait for it [pause] and go.
what a guy.
[looking at the scan] but where there's infection there's meningial swelling.
true. get a tox screen and mri.
sounds good.
yes there is a third option <U+0097> she's making it all up because she doesn't want to get in trouble for breaking a mirror. unfortunately we can't test for that so [he looks at chase] tox screen mri and you [he looks at cameron] stay away from the patient.
oh well you'd just get all warm and cuddly around the dying girl and insinuate yourself; end up in a custody battle. chase you handle the mom. tell her that you'd just sit home and watch tv and die but you're going to go though the motions of trying to save her daughters life. it's a doctor thing. [they begin to exit and he sips the tea] what the hell is this?
it's nice.
whoa look at the time i should have been out of here 20 minutes ago.
can't slip anything by you can i.
i'm taking a sick day.
everyone's a doctor suddenly.
union rules. i can't check out this guy's seeping gonorrhea this close to lunch.
well it's sexist and a very dangerous precedent; if people could choose the sex of their doctors you gals would be out of business.
sore throat? [we see the patient holding an open book in front of him he removes it to reveal blood stained pants] well it's not lupus. well not everyone can operate a zipper; the up the down. what comes next?
aha and you wanted rivkah to feel all gemutlicht. i get it it's a shandah.
just like abraham did it.
stop talking. i'm gonna get a plastic surgeon. get the twinkie back in the wrapper.
oxygen saturation is 94% check her heart.
it's off by one percentage point.
if her dna was off by one percentage point she'd be a dolphin. we've got a patient who for no obvious reason is hallucinating. since it's not obvious i thought we'd go with subtle.
welcome to the end of the thought process.
i'm going home. while i'm resting you guys get some arterial blood gasses. once you confirm she is hypoxic i want a plethysmography chest x-ray ct and vq. and if all that comes back negative then snake a catheter into her lungs. don't worry i don't sleep in. i'll get bagels.
bagels.
didn't sleep. didn't breathe. i'm dying.
which gives us no explanation for the diminished sat percentage.
sometime we can't see why normal isn't normal. get her symptoms on the board.
it's written down in my advanced health care directive should i be incapacitated in any way you run the board then foreman. chase you're just not ready yet. what else?
yeah all girls who've been molested want to talk about it. break out the rape kit.
why are you so sure?
you read her diary too?
i rest my case. a regular nine year old girl does not have sex on the brain not when a doctor is threading a catheter through her vein.
cancer doesn't make you special. molestation on the other hand
tell that to all the hookers who won't kiss me on the mouth. hey here's a theory she has been molested seeks refuge in romantic fantasies with older men with great hair. and i think you left out the punch line victims of molestation learn to work the angles. manipulate people. you did it didn't you. you kissed her.
this is exactly why you can't touch my markers. go see if she's had sex.
is she dying?
then she can wait.
if only she'd been molested then we'd have something to go on. [he tries to open a jar of mentholatum] no forced entry.
she's not fine. her sat percentage dropped another point.
lung wouldn't explain the hallucination. ct scan showed both lungs were clean which means there's a tumor in her heart.
i loosened it.
give me one other explanation for low oxygen saturation.
perfect let's go with that.
what's the rate of cancer in the general population? 1 in 10000?
the way i figure it 1 in 10000 of them should have another cancer. little girl won the lottery twice. it happens.
exploratory surgery gotta find this thing.
i know it's somewhere near the heart.
better acoustics. now listen to this.
no get the wax out of your ears. this is the patient's aortic valve. i downloaded the audio of her echocardiogram.
tumor.
but we could hear an abnormality in the sound of the valve which would indicate the presence of something; a tumor for example. if we can tell the surgeon where to look this is no longer exploratory surgery it's a precision strike.
too bad. now listen to the dulcet tones of andie's tricuspid valve.
and this is her mitral valve.
you guys make me sad. listen again.
because wilson thinks it'll be nice to give the girl a year to say good bye to her mommy. i guess maybe she stutters or something. now shut up and listen. tricuspid. mitral. again.
i'm gonna ask the surgeon to look at the mitral valve first. chase i want you there. i don't like reading surgeons reports they're boring.
she'll be unconscious you'll be safe.
sure. brave. she's a wonder.
these cancer kids; you can't put them all on a pedestal. it's basic statistics some of them have to be whiny little fraidy cats.
if there's not one yellow-belly in the group then being brave doesn't have any meaning.
you see grace because you wanna to see grace.
idolizing is pathological with you people. you see things to admire where there's nothing.
you find things to admire where you shouldn't be sniffing at all; like debbie in accounting.
you shouldn't know that you're married.
if you're dying suddenly everybody loves you.
i'm not terminal merely pathetic; you wouldn't believe the crap people let me get away with.
they got the tumor repaired her heart but she bled out of her eye.
true. the cardiac tumor was benign.
statistically.
that's why i'm mentioning it.
this is bad you're starting to state the obvious.
a nine year old with terminal cancer gets an unrelated benign tumor growing in her heart why?
talk to wilson.
the tumor is afghanistan the clot is buffalo. does that need more explanation? ok the tumor is al qaeda. big bad guy with brains. we went in and wiped it out but it had already sent out a splinter cell; a small team of low level terrorists quietly living in some suburb of buffalo waiting to kill us all.
it was an excellent metaphor angio her brain for this clot before it straps on an explosive vest.
angio was clean.
there's a clot we just can't find it.
are you sure you're not a neurologist?
well the clots not gonna to go away quietly. it could blow at anytime. are you gonna let them know?
she's such a brave girl. i want to see how brave she is when you tell her she's gonna die.
what would you do if you were told you were gonna die?
you'd cry like a baby everybody would but she's not doing anything. she's a rock.
yeah. yeah. yeah. why?
so what? does that mean she's ready to die? what if her bravery is a symptom? the clot is causing hallucinations and messing with her emotions.
would tell us where to look for the clot. where's the fears center?
then let's do that.
is it still illegal to perform an autopsy on a living person?
if it's tuesday i'm wasted.
i want to induce a hypothermic cardiac arrest. once the patients on bypass we siphon off two liters of blood then perfuse the brain while she's in an mri.
just for a little while i'll bring her right back.
if we do nothing she's dead in a day maybe a week; the kind that lasts.
absolutely. if we were doing anything invasive; but there's nothing invasive. [he almost sneezes] gah. you know i'm not cutting into her head i'm just looking for a clot.
don't split hairs if it works she lives.
i'll see that wilson passes that along.
great. thanks.
i stacked a combo of mentholatum a few vicodin and something else which i can't remember. should be able to ride the high for a couple hours; what did andie say?
about this.
what if you're right about her? what if she just is that brave?
either she understands or she's not brave. you can't have it both ways. if she does understand then she deserves to know what's going on.
i'm doctor house.
did your mom tell you what we're gonna try?
tomorrow's test could take ten hours in your present condition you might not even make it through.
how do you feel about it? if we figured maturity came from how much time you've got left instead how long you've been here this would be your call.
i could give you one.
you've got cancer. i fix this
a year of this. a lot of people wouldn't want that. a lot of people would just want it to be over.
nobody wants to die. but you're going to. the question is how how much you're gonna suffer and how long. i'm asking if you want this to be over.
i could give her ten excellent medical reasons why we can't do this procedure.
but you can't stay for her either.
this is your life you can't do this just for her.
thank you for joining me for tonight's dress rehearsal. playing the part of andie is morty randolph. [he gestures at a cadaver] for his donation to science we give our thanks. once andie is cool and goes off bypass we have 60 seconds to get 2 liters of blood out of her body and back into her for the pictures to find the clot in her head. if our star is bumped tomorrow [he barely touches the cadaver and lights start to flash] while my mri is on these red lights will go off which will mean we have no useable test results. no test results; its goodbye broadway. you guys will be wearing bad cat suits in des moines. neurosurgeons here with a view of the monitors. cardiac surgeon there in case we need to open her up. anesthesiologists one by the cardiac bypass machine one by the cooling apparatus. girls in the chorus if you're over 5' 10 stick with me. okay give me 60 seconds on the clock. showtime. a five six seven eight siphon off the blood through the arterial line whoosh sound of blood draining. more whoosh. glug glug glug and we [red lights] kill her. again.
how hard can this be?
again!
again!
again!
gruesome and low tech. kiss me i love it. a five six seven eight
this'll make you sleep.
big musical number kiddo; a lot of people here to make you look good.
okay go.
start the cooling. you. go.
200 milligrams of vecuronium.
what? she's dead; that's the whole idea. go.
okay put the blood back in; reperfuse the circuit.
anything people? anything at all?
keep looking.
i didn't see anything.
are you sure?
that's good enough for me.
diphenhydramine. antihistamine. new delivery system; it's a blood brain barrier thing.
i know my way around a razor blade.
just a couple more rocks.
right parade of the small bald circus freaks. sorry i got a thing.
oh?
yeah.
yeah. i was wrong; she genuinely is a self sacrificing saint whose life will bring her nothing but pain which she will stoically withstand just so that her mom doesn't have to cry quite so soon. i'm beside myself with joy. [he does a line] whoa!
right.
i'm pacing myself; unlike her i have the luxury of time.
i'm not gonna kiss you no matter what you say. [she hugs him]
[he looks at his cane] not much for long walks in the park. now get.
huh?
no thanks. [he starts to leave and then turns back] could i test drive one of these things?
could have tweaked a vertebrae in his neck. could have pinged on the ulnar[house is staring down at a red stain on cuddy's tank top just below her breasts.] sorry trouble concentrating. that tank top really absorbs moisture.
could have pinged the ulnar nerve cut the blood flow. or it could be
trauma can activate the clotting enzymes. guy could loose more than his hand.
cervical mri work up for dic and start him on a heparin drip
you want to know his name? [throws file down on the table] i'm sure it's in the file.
or you could ask her. she's his oldest bestest friend. they were in cub scouts together.
you haven't been a real doctor in ten years you'll make a mess all over the sheet.
get me blood. lots of blood.
they're better. they've showered.
well obviously not that mild. this keeps up and his hand will literally be dead meat. his hand is connected to his arm his arm is connected toi'm not sure but i bet it's important.
yeah if only he'd fallen on his head. then he wouldn't have any of these symptoms.
looks like cuddy same cleavage. protein c is indicated only for severe sepsis.
but this stuff is crazy dangerous. it can cause internal bleeding. if he bleeds he could stroke he could die.
you know if i tried a scheme like this you'd give me that nasty wrinkly face and screech like a hyena. [house approached cuddy until he is barely a foot away.] it's very sexy i admit.
protein c is border-line irresponsible. cept that the safe stuff isn't doing squat.
well obviously.
you seriously thought i wanted to stop her?
no first causality of this case is her sense of humor.
the good news is he won't be bitching about losing his hand if he can't breathe.
right i forgot. your roof.
the only question is why?
why her weird psychopathology requires a diagnosis formed entirely by personal guilt. let's assume we've been wrong up until now. let's assume just for one second that the earth doesn't revolve around cuddy's roof. what if he was sick before he had his run-in with gravity? he just didn't notice anything.
sure only pavement hits that fast. it's not pneumonia. might have missed a finger turning dark he's not going to miss breathing problems. what else?
well why didn't you just take out a gun and shoot him?
might have mentioned this earlier doctor. maybe we could have sent some blood cultures to the lab instead of wasting a day indulging your self-loathing.
so give him garden-variety levaquin and a garden-variety echo-cardiogram. and go check out the kid's house.
if he's huffing nail polish or pulling the wings off his pet parrot this way will be faster. i bet julio is just dying to find out what's wrong with him. [nods to cameron]. go with her.
rico and i no longer trust you deciding what's important and what's not.
trust me. it would be a lot worse if i told her you have to break into her house.
see it is shocking. guy's been working there every day for the last three weeks. do you think it's impossible that he could have picked something up?
i'm your boss.
oh she's a woman. relax i'm coming with.
what do you think? red thongs? i think red thongs. kay
twenty bucks says i can get through this door in twenty seconds.
someone as obsessive and insecure as cuddy probably has three extra keys hidden within ten feet of the door.
insecticide is organic soap is hypoallergenic.
i got the bedroom.
this is where it all happens.
does this count as red?
oh my god. she's got pictures of you in here.
just you. it's like some kind of weird shrine.
yeah.
she uses super tampons. what does that mean?
hey i can be a jerk to people i haven't slept with. i am that good.
whoa. check this out. it's fuzzy. it's black. it's alive.
i'm glad you learned to take his impending death in stride.
scars on his hand
but he says they're from construction work so he won't have to admit he's got rats in the home. catholics are right. pride will kill you.
boogy oggy oogy.
it's certainly one possibility. what about the aspergillus fungus we found under the sink?
you ought to clean your bathroom better.
no that would be wrong. i had a key.
you're right i'm right. on the bright side it has the advantage of keeping you totally responsible.
going the dangerous and aggressive route didn't work last time. it's bound to work this time. start him on the amphotericin.
with a patient.
it's three-fifteen.
she's not acting like cuddy. it's a pleasure.
technical term is narcissism. you can't believe everything is your fault unless you also believe you're all-powerful.
i don't believe i can fix everything. i don't lie awake at night tormented by that fact.
we were talking about cuddy here.
she enjoys feeling guilty.
my god it's contagious. you're feeling guilty too.
commercial's over.
snap crackle pop. got some rice crispies in there?
you were here yesterday. i see from the chart that dr. foreman prescribed medicine not a miracle. got to give this stuff more than a day.
on the theory that you didn't trust him because he's blackwell i'm going to prescribe the same medicine. see if you fill it this time.
it's racist because it helps black people more than white people? well on behalf of my peeps let me say thanks for dying on principle for us.
you know i have found a difference. admittedly it's a limited sample but it's my experience in the last ninety seconds that all black people are morons. sorry african-americans.
fine. fine.
i'll give you the same medicine we give republicans.
geez it's the cops.
guess she understands a little english.
that wasn't a complete waste of time. his reaction shows that you don't need to clean under your sink. it wasn't aspergilllus.
there's still plenty of other cool pneumonias
well that all sucks
see my lapdog agrees with me. how high?
what about on st. alban's day? only temperature i'm interested in right now is his temperature right now.
open up.
okay let me clarify. open up and keep it open.
under your tongue.
you're using your left hand. right one hurt?
it really doesn't hurt? or you just figure if you say no you'll get out of the hospital sooner?
you don't smell too hot.
your hand is starting to rot.
why are we here?
yes we're talking about cutting it off not subdividing it and putting in condos. it's not a legal issue.
huh?
what? she says one word and you take her side. you should wait until she at least gives a medical reason. otherwise i might take it personally.
what underlying problem? you have no idea what the underlying problem is.
fine. it's all my fault. does that make you feel better?
his hand is a cesspool. and the crap is spreading.
don't give a damn about his livelihood.
he can't work as a cripple?
american dream destroyed. very sad very emotional. not one medical fact in the whole pathetic tale. you've lost perspective cuddy. you've stopped looking at this as a doctor. you're acting like someone who shoved somebody off their roof. you want to make things right? too bad. nothing's ever right.
i'm happy to report that we're now so in synch we're actually wearing each other's underwear. chop chop time.
no i'm lying. stupid to do with her in the room i guess.
we made it.
no! [throws hands up]. look. she is making a medical decision based on never wanting to feel regret. you're making a legal decision on wanting me to be wrong.
you wanted superficial agreement. you wanted everybody's asses covered. you got it. now can i do the surgery? pretty pretty please?
i'm guessing an old black guy that thinks the cia invented rap music to make your people want to kill each other.
this isn't about race. unless annoying is a race. is he not getting better?
oh relax foreman. he already is.
i told him it was the white stuff. i gave him the black stuff.
it's just a white lie.
right i'm a racist. too bad that idiot will never know for the rest of his long long life.
i'm getting distracted by the multi-system organ failure. pinkies are supposed to be pink right? they're not called grayies.
but the pinky is weirder[sits up] what does it tell us?
but at a different time. his blood work indicates mild dic. what if it's mild in the way you get out of the ocean the water clinging to your body makes the sea level drop. it's technically true but completely irrelevant.
endocarditis. his heart's infected.
little bacteria cauliflowers clinging to his bowels. except sometimes they can't hold on. they go swimming in his bloodstream. thursday one breaks off goes to his right hand. black fingers gangrene. friday's child heads for the kidneys. we all know what saturday's are all about. party with the left hand. also explains the fever.
which either means he is negative or what infection could cause pneumonia and culture negative for endocarditis? prize value goes down with every clue.
which are squawking. give him doxycycline.
i liked you better when you were coming up with wacky drugs for us to try. we give him the doxy now damnit maybe we can save his pinky. he can teach his brother how to count all the way to five.
technically if i'm wrong he'll end up dead. but i take your point. what's his night job?
since when do fast food joints allow twelve-year-olds to mop floors?
really? looks younger.
what job do you do on saturday nights?
wake him up.
yeah. we need to talk about it.
donde trabaja su hijo los s<e1>bados por la noche? (where does your son work on saturday nights?)
well because she'd want to talk to me.
d<ed>game! (tell me!)
she says he doesn't work saturday nights. give me the talking juice.
when she was out of the room the kid brother insisted he was going to cover for alfredo at work tonight.
que hace alfredo los s<e1>bados por la noche? (what does alfredo do on saturday nights?)
saturday nights he goes dancing. either it's a lie or he's dancing with birds.
a d<f3>nde? (where?)
give her the talking juice.
odds are it's going to be close to his house. probably an abandoned warehouse or factory. take the scooby gang and spread out.
find somebody who looks like crap tell him you want to place a bet.
sayonara!
i already put him on the psittacosis meds. soon as you left. you're welcome.
what do you think the record for one-handed juggling is?
good point.
hello.
if you're wallowing in self loathing i've got something that might help.
we're getting sued.
ca-ching. the new american dream. happy ending. kid's gonna be just fine.
cuddy.
your guilt. it's perverse and it makes you a crappy doctor. it also makes you okay at what you do.
now would the world be a better place if people never felt guilty? makes sex better. [points to stacy with his cane] should have seen her in the last months of our relationship. lot of guilt. lot of screaming. i know this wasn't just because it was your roof. cuddyyou see the world as it is and you see the world as it could be. what you don't see is what everybody else sees. the giant gaping chasm in between.
if you did you never would have hired me.
you're not happy unless things are just right. which means two things. you're a good boss. and you'll never be happy.
by the way why does everybody think you and i had sex? think there could be something to it? i don't know.
think so?
no. no way she could have.
it's raining.
selling subscriptions? i heard twenty and you get a new bike.
really? crushed under the weight of his own ego?
well there was this gal i met in nam who could blow out a candle without using her <U+0096>
good thing he's not the syphilis expert.
second to his own. okay. [closes chart] it's not tb.
oh you want specifics?
patients aren't usually part of the diagnostic process.
[writing on the board] wow how can you sleep at night?
yeah i know. i saw the concert. seriously let's say you sleep six hours; that means every night you kill 1440 people. i guess you got to get some sleep but come on if you'd stayed up another 10 minutes you could have saved 40 lives. do you send notes to the families in the morning? that's going to take at least ten minutes so that's another 40 dead another 40 notes. why don't you go wrack yourself with guilt in your own room?
dr. cameron tell the doctor why it's not a good idea for the patient to be here.
that'll be very useful if we need somebody to say the words i think it's tb. [he sniffs.] what is that?
who thinks it smells like an elephant dung smoothie?
that is exactly why the patient shouldn't be in the room. if you can't tell a man that his cologne makes you want to puke how are you going to tell him that he's an idiot?
sure you say that now while he's in the room.
nope. the symptoms are too varied.
told you he's an idiot. you said you wanted a second opinion.
yeah doesn't look good if you drop dead while wearing your shoes sponsor's logo.
wouldn't want that. [sebastian's cell rings. he answers it.]
the nameless poor have a face and it's a pompous white man. [cameron enters.]
[looking at his yo-yo] i can't remember how to do walk the dog. the guy's sick he may be dying. we've forgotten all about doing a differential diagnosis.
i had to get him out of there. now we can all sit around and call him an idiot. who wants to go first?
well by that logic everyone in the hospital should be treated.
tb takes years to kill you. two weeks ago he was perfectly healthy now he's got a white board full of symptoms.
welcome aboard the good ship asskisser. [chase glares.] nice day for a sail. pucker up me hearties.
obviously big as all out doors.
it's subtle but it's there.
loose throttle. sometimes beats too fast sometimes too slow.
treat him like every other hospital patient. i want to see that pious body powered toosh hanging out of his gown.
every minute that we refuse to love one another another puppy cries another tear.
and yet i've nailed more swedish babes. crazy crazy world.
seriously? no wonder everyone's going after that peace thing. [the elevator dings and they walkout into the hospital lobby.]
mcdonald's makes a better hamburger than your mother because they make more?
yup that's the reason. nobel invented dynamite. i won't accept his blood money.
hmmm. we spent a week doing top of head' in anatomy. i know just where it is. [he sticks his fingers right against her sinuses and she flinches. (ed. <U+0096> and i flinch in sympathy.)]
eh close enough for clinic. your sinuses are clogged. judging by the scratches on your hands i'm guessing a new cat.
you keep a dead cat?
oh. poor cat. you're allergic. we can control it with antihistamine one pill a day.
you don't like to swallow. not surprised. forget the pills. i'll give you a nasal spray.
well if you lived by the river i've got a bag.
but his ekg was not normal.
two for you one for me. we need a tie-breaker.
tilt-table test.
bet you a week's clinic duty it does.
you like this guy? [and up.]
medically it's irrelevant. [down.] that says something about you. [up.]
yes. there's an evolutionary imperative why we give a crap about our family and friends. and there's an evolutionary imperative why we don't give a crap about anybody else. if we loved all people indiscriminately we couldn't function.
just not as honest about it.
what does this knobby thing do?
the way i figure it is if this could show you problems at 6 imagine what could happen if you crank it to10. [the table starts going up and down much faster.]
does it go to 11?
i win.
i'm not talking about the nausea. [he points to the screen with the readout.]
hey i have feelings. i'm trying my best. isn't that enough for you?
well thank god we found out before we put the pacemaker in. and thank god you dragged him into a stairwell to get his heart racing.
because he's been talking to foreman. [the phone rings.]
excellent briefing.
get an mri. [picks up phone] hello? oh i'm sorry i'll be right down. no problem i'll do an extra hour to make up. i'm late for my clinic duty. here go be me for a couple hours. [he tosses foreman his nametag looking smug.]
did i ask you to plant a ppd?
well of course he's got tb! the guy's been in the jungle for 20 years! if he tested positive for pink-eye would you think that was his big problem?
because now he's got the big red target on his arm the stubborn jerk thinks he's right! he won't let us do any more tests.
not everything!
you're right. got to treat the tb.
you'd like that wouldn't you? [cameron leaves.]
i'm complicated.
he's not even a real doctor he's a human telethon.
you think i have a hypocritical attitude to hypocrisy? the problem is there are 26 letters in the alphabet and he only uses two of them. he treats thousands of patients with one diagnosis. he knows the answer going in. it's cheating.
oh did i hurt the big time oncologist's itty bitty feelings? [house at this point start covering his steak with salad greens.] you're a big help to patients who actually have cancer. other times you're just annoying. [cuddy walks up.]
i'll say. my salad's covering a free t-bone steak.
last week they said it was mystery stew they owe me.
then it probably wasn't.
let me ask you something: if this were another doctor if this patient were complaining about let's say i don't know foreman you'd just dismiss this as the paranoid bitching of another paranoid bitch and file it under p' for <U+0096>
am not.
good.
i have no idea. [to the cashier] just a salad today big breakfast.
so he won't take the pills.
and he won't agree to any more tests.
see what happens when you don't listen to me?
yeah that's my point. increased heart rate night sweats loss of consciousness besides rough sex what do they all have in common?
it's not tb!
[on phone] in my opinion dr. sebastian charles is an idiot. yeah you can quote me. c-u-d-d-y. [chase and foreman laugh to themselves.]
sebastian is refusing life-saving treatment.
he won't let me test him.
hold him down.
trust me; she doesn't want to hear it from me. look the guy is killing himself am i the only one who realizes this is a bad thing? [cuddy begins to put on lipstick.] if he was a christian scientist refusing meds we'd have 18 attorneys. you're putting on make-up. that's not a good sign for my side is it?
you are as big a media whore as he is.
oh whores can like the sex. doesn't mean they're not whores. and with that eye shadow i am totally screwed aren't i?
you want third-world treatment? [turns up the thermostat] you got it. boy is it hot here in jani!
what am i doing? [he knocks all of sebastian's things off of the tray of the bed.] putting everything on the floor of the hut. uh oh wicked magic box with the moving pictures!
[unplugging the tv] hypocrite? no everyone in africa's got cell phones or running water. [speaking of cell phones it just got dropped in the toilet. it's a tight fit though so house prods it down the hole with his cane.] hah this thing just will not flush.
[wiping his cane on sebastian's blanket] lousy sanitation over there too. you are not the same as them; your life is not the same. and you are cheapening everything they're going through by pretending you are.
you can't demand to be treated like any third-world sick person and call a press conference!
[keeps snapping] sure they're dying but it's got a great beat.
yup. [foreman enters.]
he's in a coma. i need you to apologize to ceci cecily
for whatever i did.
that has been my position all along.
do you notice how all the self-sacrificing women in history <U+0096> joan of arc mother theresa can't think of any others <U+0096> they all die alone. the men on the other hand get so much fuzz it's crazy.
insulting a woman with breast cancer <U+0096> that's a move best left to the pros. frankly you don't have the chops.
what did you do call em perky? you are years away from mad skills [ed. <U+0096> m4d sk1llz?] like that. i need you to apologize.
welcome to the world. everyone's different everyone gets treated different. you try fighting that you end up dying of tb. [house hits the tv.]
testing the patient's autonomic nervous system.
his internal heating and ventilation should be off shouldn't be able to sweat. that's why he's got that awful body powder. take it away crank up the heat stick him under the lights can't cool himself. he should be turning bright red.
he's sweating like a pig.
he's disoriented.
his arteries are clamping down. [a monitor starts beeping.]
get the crash cart he's having a cardiac arrest! [more beeping.]
[in the camera's face] that is not tb!
i want to treat you for tb. dr. cameron found low sugar in your cerebrospinal fluid. it's a classic finding of tb.
nah. if tb caused cardiac arrest on a hot day your work in africa would be even more futile than it already is.
that white board in my office we're up to about a dozen symptoms now. cardiac arrest clearly not tb. csf sugar clearly is tb. the rest of them could go either way. unless we know which ones are which i can't diagnose you. [he holds out the pills which sebastian takes and places on the tray next to him.]
so you're not special but tb is.
people die of malaria because we let them they die of dysentery <U+0096>
you own a disease? well i'm sorry i missed the ipo on dengue fever.
right now i'm just trying to save your life.
can't we just agree that you're incredibly annoying? take the pills or i let you die do an autopsy call my own press conference and make sure the world knows that you didn't die of tb. corporate sponsors will be disappointed but they'll find another disease.
because i'm just a mean son of a bitch. [house leaves and sebastian takes the pills.]
so we still have to explain p-r variability syncope headaches and low sugar?
this is good!
bizarre is good! common has hundreds of explanations. bizarre has hardly any.
uh-uh. i get to ask the questions. i've found you look a lot smarter asking the questions than dumbly not answering.
see how smart she looks? cause she asked the question.
which just leaves the tumour. [he leaves they all follow.]
small tumour. really really tiny. so small we can't see it. nesidioblastoma.
it responds to stress. like if oh i don't know if someone accidentally puts the mechanical bull on11. [they pile into the elevator.] easily removed by surgery.
she asked looking clever.
how do you prove something exists when you can't see it? does god exist? does the wind blow?
look for effects. [they get out of the elevator where cuddy and cecelia are moving toward them.]
dr. house has an emergency.
eventually she'll die. you sure she doesn't have breast cancer?
we think you have a tumour easily removed surgically. we're going to poke it with a stick.
nothing happens. splenic artery it's a hard left off the celiac. [chase goes for the artery.]
what usually happens when you poke something with a stick? it pokes back.
i knew we should have stopped for directions. men.
we're going to inject calcium into your pancreas. the beta cells will release insulin. if there are too many beta cells because of a tumor your blood sugar will drop precipitously.
fingers and toes crossed.[to chase] go ahead. [chase injects the calcium. cgi shot of it entering the artery.]
no leaves rustling. blow harder.
well i guess now would be the time to give him more than 1 amp. [cgi of more calcium entering.]
not yet.
not fast enough. [monitor beeps.]
push an amp of d-50 you want to kill the guy? [cgi of the meds entering the system.]
congratulations you have a tumor.
are you going to go out with him?
nope.
two days ago you were holding his hand. what's changed?
on the other hand maybe there's too much of a future now. you weren't attracted to him because he was prepared to die for a cause you were attracted to him because he was actually doing it.
that was simple?
everybody does it. we are who people think we are. people think he's a great doctor so they give him stuff.
the reality is irrelevant. [house looks into the clinic and sees cecelia sitting there.] i'll prove it. people who know me see me as an ass treat me as an ass. people who don't know me see a cripple treat me as a cripple. what kind of selfish jerk wouldn't take advantage of that fact? [he enters the clinic and walks by cecelia deliberately leaning his cane on her boot.]
oh my goodness are you okay?
[exaggerated toward cuddy]i am so sorry. it was completely my fault.
well i'm very relieved i feel terrible.
you sure? okay. [they shake hands. cuddy and house make faces at each other. as house leaves cuddy walks through her office door to cecelia.]
it's not about the kids dying every 8 seconds it's about the media stroking. adulation and pats on the head.
look at him he loves it. eats it up.
listen i saved his life. that means i get credit for every life he saves from here on out.
good morning!
really? that must be why i'm so hungry. who's up for lunch?
[poses] it keeps me warm and cool. how does it know?
must be a boring discussion considering that i haven't accepted a new patient.
oh wait wait when i said i'd do anything for the money obviously i didn't mean it.
thank you for saving me the trouble of deflecting that personal question with a joke. [chase smiles and house turns to wilson] college student? nitrous oxide is fun at parties. 'cause the shocks and drinking 'til you puke every night can cause everything else. give him some b12.
[sighs] cervical spondylosis?
he's black i'm assuming he's not just really dirty but is of african descent. which means he'd have a lower white count.
he's a wrestler probably uses diuretics to cut weight can also cause low white count.
[mockingly] not this low. tieshets(??).
something's missing. find out what it is. [tosses the chart on the table in front of the ducklings.]
well figure it out find it out and then find me i'll be at lunch.
invite me to dinner thursday night. [wilson looks blankly at him] come on we haven't had a nice meal together since oh
[tosses his cane up in the air and catches it near the top then hands it over to wilson] my treat. [house limps over to the bike]
actually two-wheeled vehicles that go 180 miles an hour do not go well with healthy responsible architects who don't know how to separate breaking and turning. [while he is saying this house is lifting his right leg over the bike and settling down onto the seat.] good news is it brings the price right down.
[mock whining] moooom! how about we talk about this over dinner.
thank you. see that's how you do it compliments dinner.
if he buys me dinner he'll find out. [house takes his cane back from wilson and twirls it then clicks it into place on the side of the bike. a special holder is there for that purpose.] evel knievel had the same setup.
i don't want hand-me-downs. i want brand new stuff.
sorry i didn't catch that last part!
you checked the police report?
on his mom's car accident.
she veered off a straight dry road in broad daylight. that doesn't seem odd to you?
that's what the police thought. of course they didn't know that she has a family member who is frequently incapacitated by shock-like sensations
it's interesting. type 2 neurofibromatosis could cause the shocks.
[shrugs] i knew something was missing. maybe this maybe something else. get a dna analysis of the long arm of chromosome 22
you'd rather have dinner with your wife?
[smiles] unlike her i could make it worth your while [leers]
should i drive?
he lied to his son about how his mom died? [takes a vicodin]
manipulating him.
they lie to us because they love us. who's getting teary?
so what exactly are we talking about here? a little peeker or did the prairie dog actually come out to play?
are we talking explosive?
good now we're getting somewhere [checks the caller id]
i have no idea [picks up the phone] hello?
hi mom! look err i have a business dinner on thursday night i can't get out of it. i know i really i wanted to see you too. uhh actually can i call you back? i'm in a meeting right now. okay thanks. [the ducklings look confused and startled house puts down the phone]
angelina jolie. i call her mom. who thinks that's sexy? [turns back to the whiteboard] so explosive or gushing...
great yeah. my dad's taking her to europe they got a nine-hour layover in newark on thursday. if it's gastrointestinal...
are you kidding? i can't lie to my mom. [cameron's look clearly says that's obviously bullshit] seriously i can't! wilson's invited me to dinner. it'd be rude to stand up a guy who just loaned me 5 grand. [cameron looks shocked]
thank you for taking no interest in my mother. but that begs the question what caused the transverse myelitis?
molecular mimicry. nice. okay get an immunoglobulin level and an electrophoresis
[talking to the symptoms on the whiteboard] you're good my friend i'm sure we'll meet again.
are these people completely incapable of telling the truth to each other?
[sighs] no wonder he lied. children aren't supposed to have good times.
where have you been?
the boys have uncovered the shocking fact that the patient has a crappy relationship with his dad.
well i don't. there's only one reason any kid with a plane flies to jamaica.
he say that to you or his pops?
[thoughtful] spring break was over a month ago even pot would have washed out by now
true. but the stuff they put on it does.
or he could have smoked it. a lot of it. and then lied about it because that's what this family does. start him on iv of pralidoxime. 2 grams per litre and then 1 gram every eight hours until you see some improvement.
which is why it's going to be so cool when i turn out to be right.
cameron who were you making dinner plans with?
you bastard! [wilson turns around and sees house] you invited my parents to dinner.
hah! not as big as yours!
well what do you care?
you could have just asked.
and you would have believed me! which would have kept us both happy. [wilson looks utterly confused] you want your money back? is this what this is about?
i didn't. [takes out his chequebook and starts writing a cheque] just wanted to see if you could give it to me. i've been borrowing increasing amounts ever since you lent me 40 dollars a year ago. a little experiment to see where you draw the line.
hey it's 5 grand. you've got nothing to be ashamed of. [tears the cheque out of his chequebook] so what do you say? one little phone call and one big cheque?
[shocked] what do you mean? you just said that--
he's healthy so all is forgiven. now i'm feeling nauseous.
the shocks have also decreased
and he's out of the diaper which is good news for everyone.
the little buggers need time to grow. don't worry our wrestling rastafarian will be back on his feet and sneaking around behind pap's back again in no time. [the phone in his office starts ringing house picks it up] yeah. [pause] check it again. i'll be right there. [puts down the phone]
apparently i can save money by switching to another long-distance carrier.
oh yeah it's always about you isn't it?
you want the truth? or you want me to make something up to protect you? we think a drunk driver broke into his room.
the truth is... i have no idea.
there's the fever that cameron was looking for
yeah except in this universe effect follows cause. i've complained about it but--
no the tests were right. yesterday he had no fever no infection.
yeah. because his white blood cell count was down he was vulnerable because it's really down it might kill him. that's all this is. is he still pooping his pants?
again?
he was feeling better he was never getting better.
that would be the ideal. you [points to chase] intravenous broad spectrum antibiotics. you [points to foreman] get a cervical thoracic and lumbar t2-weighted fast spin echo mris and you [points to cameron] track down all those richie riches who went to jamaica. see if any of them have got the shocks the trots or the hots. hots is the... fever
to apologise. [cuddy smiles not trusting house one bit] i realise that my attention to the clinic has been somewhat lax of late and i want to make amends. how about tomorrow night i take the night shift?
yeah but i'm sure there's plenty of things to be done there's charts to be reviewed supplies inventoried--
you're going too?
give me a reason to get out of this and i'll tell you who started the rumour about you being a transsexual.
there will be unless you get me out of this dinner.
you lie to your mother?
my mom's a human polygraph. my dad should be taking her to vegas not the louvre.
i don't hate her. i hate him.
what did it look like? aside from not ringworm.
get him in here we all want to take a look.
what are the odds of two friends who've just returned from a trip outside the country coming down with unexplained but unrelated illnesses? get him in here.
tell him his friend's life hangs in the balance.
tell him his life hangs in the balance. tell him the rash is flesh-eating and the next course in the menu is his frank and beans.
double the dose. and add tygacil to the list.
where's richie rich?
yeah you told me that two hours ago.
why 'cause it's wrong? or because you're a coward?
you've been wasting 2 hours of the kid's time. is that deeply and unforgivably morally wrong? no. because it's not a waste of his time. unless we're wrong unless his condition has got nothing to do with his friend's. you're just afraid of being wrong.
you taddy?
love the name. if i ever have a dog... take off his pants.
don't talk to her listen to me
you wanted to be a doctor maybe you should have buckled down a little more in high school [takes a pair of scissors and starts cutting up taddy's pants]
exactly how close were you and carnell?
spend a lot of time together in jamaica? share a room?
not saying you're gay i'm saying you had sex. [tears the pants open and starts inspecting the rash near taddy's groin. fortunately taddy's still got his briefs on]
right so you just flew him down to jamaica because he won a contest.
it's not fungus.
there's no pustules it's not staph... [suddenly looks up at taddy] his dad's what?
you lied.
oh yeah problems with this family probably need more specifics. you told us you owned a construction company not a salvage yard.
right. that's why i'm mad. 'cause we wasted all that filet mignon on you. did your kid find anything unusual the last time he worked for you?
braided wire metal weights lead canister maybe just a lid. probably used it as a door stop or paperweight.
okay here it comes
so he can lie about it later. where's the keychain?
kept it where?
where are the kid's clothes?
[gestures at chase and foreman] you two get it to radiology.
the bureau. don't open it. [they rush off he turns to cameron] you come with me.
set it down there. now get out of here this thing is radioactive. [he takes a geiger counter out of the small box and turns it on. chase runs out]
call the boys in the lead pyjamas. [foreman runs out]
and caused tumours.
do a pet scan. check his cervical spine. it's not going to be good news.
mom.
[gets up and hugs her] it's great to see you.
actually yeah. i uh... i have to take a rain check.
i asked him to cancel. i'm dealing with kind of a complicated case right now so...
my team is busy.
mom don't make me feel guilty.
i've got a patient who's probably going to die of radiation poisoning.
well i guess i've got time for a sandwich.
yeah?
thank you.
nope. just gullible.
not much.
it's always the answer.
got a new motorcycle. might have seen it out front it's orange with a gigantic scrape.
yeah. looks like crap but it drives great.
actually three [holds up his cane]
shifting gears?
[turns to his mother] well good thing we got that cleared up
i don't need help.
[sprawled out on an arm chair and one leg on a foot rest] thank you. for not eating. [he gives her a look that looks thankful but also uncomfortable with the situation]
[nods] they seem perfectly pleasant don't they? they are. he was a marine pilot. she was a housewife. married 47 years. they had one child. mom was just like everyone else nice enough no great sense of humour hates confrontation. my dad's just like you. not the caring 'til your eyes pop out part just the insane moral compass that won't let you lie to anybody about anything. it's a great quality for boy scouts and police witnesses. crappy quality for a dad.
yeah!
oh god. are you pregnant? cause i really want to finish high school
they're good for two more months
you know; our relationship was way better when we were sleeping together. why'd we stop doing that? did you get married?
rice isn't r<U+0097> oh i get it!
i don't do dictations. cameron does them or somebody.
joke killer
[sighs] sorry can't play anymore my mom's calling me [walks out of his office]
you've got to fire stacy
she's loading me up with pointless paperwork
she's hostile. you know me hostility makes me shrink up like a... can't think of a non-sexual metaphor. she's going to stand over my desk with a ruler checking my spelling!
professional athletes cuddy! it's like watching an old movie at 2am re-living all the classic moments. part where he denies it's drugs part where the good guys ride in tests a-blazing prove that it is drugs. oscar clip he can't imagine how that got into his body! so familiar so comforting. [points back at his office where stacy still is] she can't handle working with me
anyway thanks for getting me out of that meeting. [starts to walk away]
i'm a doctor you're a sick person. [looks at the manager] and you are a loved one
so what's the drug du jour on the bike circuit these days? still erythropoietin? or are you guys just chugging battery acid?
damn! [looks at cuddy] ten bucks for the tickets six for the popcorn
that's a very daring confession
assuming i'm more ethical than your client.
so injecting yourself with donor red blood cells for fun and profit. any other tricks up your sleeve?
so you go slower they see you longer. let's say that our health could be affected by things we did before last friday.
yeah yeah yeah yeah but why would you be sick?
this guy doesn't even get sick like a regular person. instead of a list of symptoms and no cause we have a list of possible causes for one symptom
respiratory distress. and insanity doesn't cause it i looked it up.
not with a clean spiral chest ct
that'd cause pulmonary oedema which he doesn't have
tox screen was normal. all the tests were normal. there's no clot no oedema and yet he still can't breathe so there's something in here that we can't see.
come to papa!
the air is keeping him from breathing air. let's go with that for the irony. get a vq scan check his veins for bubbles.
now there were 3 wasted words.
i love when you do both sides of the conversation. it's like white noise it's very peaceful.
green for food orange for beverages red for impure thoughts. that bulb burns out every 2 weeks.
pumped an air bubble into a vein in his lung.
hey! you're talking about me aren't you?
i'm just trying to function. he's trying to win himself some little yellow jerseys. [the cafeteria door opens to admit stacy wheeling mark in on a wheelchair] uh oh.
[rubs his forehead] trouble in paradise 2 o' clock
[points] there.
she was unbelievably pissy 3 hours ago
when she's angry she gets sarcastic. when she's annoyed she's funny but when she's frustrated she gets pissy
she's miserable with mark because he's not me. so she's gotta make me not me so she makes my professional life miserable if i can't do my job--
oh i get some some all the time i always need to borrow some money
i've been pissy.
i've been busy. [picks up mark's fork and deliberately eats some of mark's food off his plate] when you save someone's life they owe you forever.
how's your recovery going? gotten around to the small muscles yet?
[turns back to wilson] how awkward was that? [wilson gives him an annoyed but knowing look] what's he doing here anyway? he's got physio tuesdays and fridays.
hey! your [stutters a little in exaggerated excitement] you again!
what's there to say? it's only the responsible thing. i'm sure he's got a lot to deal with
what makes a guy start drooling? chase were you wearing your short shorts?
why?
maybe the problem is not the embolus itself. maybe it's the treatment. maybe you hit a nerve literally.
so what would be just right goldilocks? full blood workup including ana for lupus. and get a muscle biopsy; find out if we're talking myopathy or neuropathy. i'm late for my session [gets up and walks out]
not today. i've come for the healing. dr harper as you know i err i have a bum leg. what you don't know is i'm upset about it. i need to talk.
you've been telling me for years that i should come by. here i am. [to the group] hi guys
poker night.
book club. well look if it's a problem i'll just go deal with my rage privately.
[nods thoughtfully] i'm tired of fighting.
oh god i know that feeling.
yeah i know but you're starting to walk. you're going to get better.
you have a wife which gives greater meaning. wife could make things harder too i suppose.
when it happened to me stacy was great. she kept telling me not to rush it. i never believed her.
i know but... stacy... she shouldn't have to wait right? and you know she feels it too. needs more time at work needs more satisfaction from work. she didn't get married to be a nursemaid. she wants a man.
that's an interesting question. maybe she was attracted to different things in the two of us.
but why was she with me to begin with?
maybe it's that simple. or maybe she saw something in me something that she doesn't get from you.
maybe she wanted an ass. she obviously did once.
you think that's the kind of thing you can just turn off?
here's my new theory. the drooling is another competitive edge. nobody can drive behind him the road gets slick he's the only one not racing in the rain!
[sighs] paralysis?
so why is he normal?
he's shooting for extraordinary so why is everything so ordinary? i mean this guy's breathing drinking and injecting himself with everything he can find to amp up his body chemistry and yet every test is normal. he's artificially raising his red blood count so why isn't it raised?
can't slip anything by you.
yeah but it's been over an hour since we poked the patient with something sharp so get a lumbar puncture. and order broad spectrum antibiotics.
so glad we cured his respiratory arrest freed him up to develop respiratory arrest.
what was my theory yesterday?
why would you be so petty chase? he's down a court. either he's losing blood because you nicked something or he's just not producing blood in which case we're talking acute anaemia combined with a muscular disorder.
either you screwed up or he's got cancer.
you want a medical opinion supporting that decision?
symptoms meaning [flips open the chart] diarrhoea. a lot of diarrhoea.
well if you're upset my hiccups are gone.
well you were the one who was all greg you need to confront your feelings'.
i've been pissy.
mark's looking for help because... what? he's resentful? overwhelmed? i'm asking because i care.
look i could get my rocks off anytime i want. what i don't seem to be able to do is my job without you hanging over my shoulder.
how many packs? [turns back to the patient]
yeah. what was i thinking? i'm talking about the gum you're chewing; you ever play smoking as an oral fixation. how many packs?
you're pissy.
pissy. you only get pissy when you're frustrated.
ok i'm wrong.
right. the cripple boys. we should start a band.
and none of this has anything to do with me?
you're being poisoned.
sugarless gum uses sorbitol as a sweetener. we use sorbitol as a laxative.
congratulations chase. it's cancer. clean him up and let oncology have him it's their party now.
why would he lie?
people lie for thousands of reasons but there's always a reason.
unless he's not lying.
wilson's chatty. plus he's got two ex-wives to support. you want me to tell him he's fired?
how am i supposed to practice medicine with a lawyer sitting on my shoulder?
you know i can't do that!
he doesn't have cancer.
why would cameron leak cancer? how does cancer make the guy look bad? [lengthy pause] he's on epo. [rushes out]
your anaemia is caused by pure red cell aplasia. this is going to hurt but we got to talk.
he'll be fine. sort of. i don't have time to watch him write out answers [he pulls out an oxygen mask and puts it over jeff's nose and mouth] prca comes in two varieties chronic and acute. since it came on fast you have the acute version.
that's the good news. bad news is pants are on fire. acute prca is caused by drugs most commonly epo. ready and... action! [he pulls the gas mask off]
[puts the gas mask back on] ok this time more anger! remember this guy's accusing you of cheating. [takes the gas mask off again]
oh [kisses his fingertips] mwah i believed it. it was simple it was pure. did you believe it? [takes the gas mask off] i guess it's silly to cancel someone over the first audition. why don't you do a reading?
hmm...what do you think? that was a different way to go but i don't know i just didn't buy it. does she handle any of your injections?
gee that's a great idea. i sure hope that epo's not one of those drugs that's undetectable after six hours. hey you know what we can test for? phone calls. take her cell phone push the redial button even money says it'll be connected to the newspaper that leaked your cancer story [manager glares at him] okay... [he reaches over to grab the phone at the foot of the bed but she grabs it first]
[scoffs at them by mimicking jeff] come on give her a break. she's only doing what she has to to advance her career. don't you have that tattooed on your tushie?
who're you going to believe? manager you've trusted for years? [snorts] i've been to college
can't leave if they don't exist.
the only problem with that theory is it's based on the assumption that the universe is a just place. if it were then his poor manager wouldn't have been fired for no reason.
what's his red count now?
he needed a transfusion?
[makes a dramatic gesture with the stirring stick] go forth and scan his neck.
or repeat everything i say in question form.
she came into the clinic and yelled at me. then she left. then she came back and yelled some more.
i know what the yelling means it's the coming and going i find interesting. it's not rational.
some anger is. she could have pulled me aside screamed at me privately. her beef is simple and well-founded. she was out of control.
she's in my face i need to know why.
oh why else?
i knew it wasn't in his chest. all we've done since he checked in is look at his chest.
there are two types of prca. acute comes on suddenly chronic takes its time. we all thought jeff's was acute because it happened right in front of us. what if it had been there for months? maybe years?
which he was getting in convenient blood-doping form.
up to half of patients with chronic prca have a thymoma. and up to half of patients with a thymoma [takes out a syringe] i've always wanted to do this.
you are healed! rise and walk.
in the bible you just say yes lord and then start right in on the praising.
no what did you lord. thymoma is a tumour in the thymus gland. he's a bit of a wimp but he hangs with the tough guys. prca and an auto-immune disease called myasthenia gravis. mg causes muscle fatigue including respiratory problems and difficulty swallowing.
treatment for prca is blood transfusions treatment for mg is hyperbaria. you were doing both as part of your regular freak show. when you took a break everything went to hellwhich is not an uncommon reaction in jersey.
[raises his hand to his lips] ooops. no no epo. this has nothing to do with anything you did. you can let her know she's in the clear.
[makes a snarky face when jeff isn't looking] you don't need your thymus. take it out everything else is manageable.
nuh uh this is just diagnostic. this just erases the symptoms of mg for five or six minutes [jeff suddenly starts wheezing again and suddenly drops like a ton of bricks onto the floor. house stands there without raising a hair] sometimes less. this is exactly why i created nurses. [calls out from the room] cleanup on aisle three!
i want to apologise [he solemnly sits down] maybe i've been punishing you for a little too long. and maybe you've been punishing me. if we're going to work together i need to know - do you hate me? or do you love me? either way i think we've got a problem.
you don't hate him?
so what do we do?
right. that plan's been working great so far.
why?
hey i need you to open that door.
yeah er... i was having therapy in here today and er i left my cane.
dude! i'm crippled.
got it you're morally outraged. now can we get through this part? 'cause the next part's awesome. [he takes a bite of toast.]
borrowed a key
nope! i made copies. mark is and i quote [wilson groans.] withdrawn passive-aggressive won't communicate like he resents me because i can walk.
dishes in the sink toilet seat up. meanwhile she can't stop thinking about [walks up to wilson and shows him the notes.] i can't read that is she obsessed with a grey horse? or me?
it's a pet name. [picks the notes back up.] here's the kicker. [shows the notes to wilson again; wilson reads it again with interest this time.]
doctor cleared him but no liftoff. she's frustrated so she's doc-blocking me. paperwork seminars meddling with my patients
while looking for my newspaper efficient huh?
[sighs.] dr wilson i want you to meet my stalker
i am not treating you.
[turns around to give wilson a look.] he is so self-loathing. [grabs the newspaper from kalvin.] well we've got to go now so maybe see you after work--
[doesn't bother to look at the file.] well your shirt is gaping at the collar means you lost weight you're flushed that's fever and you're short of breath. and finally there's the ks lesion on your face; means you're hiv positive you've progressed to full-blown aids. so you're sick because your immune system is shot and someone sneezed on you. [shoves file back to kalvin.] can i be excused now?
your concentration camp physique begs to differ. get your t-cell count re-checked.
all of this will be fascinating to an hiv specialist. now let go of my cane before it becomes your new boyfriend.
congress says you can't so...
i didn't touch him. [he's intrigued.]
we gave him epi he's fine.
four words two mistakes. he's not a patient and i didn't hit him.
i didn't cause the anaphylaxis. it's probably one of his hiv meds abacavir.
medically this case is a snooze-fest. aids plus infection.
just 'cause he says i hit him doesn't make it true. watch [looks up at the ceiling.] i am surrounded by naked cheerleaders [nothing happens.] see? [stacy hands him a mug of coffee.] although i like my chances of some action this morning.
you make me meet you at your house. your husband is conveniently absent.
well i'm surprised your feet are touching the floor.
[takes off his jacket.] what was mark up to? memory serves quick climb up mt. gregory and you dozed through a seal hunt. clubbing shrieking. [walks to the sink and starts washing the dishes.]
sorry it's driving me nuts.
people change. i could make sure you'd sleep like a baby tonight.
i was referring to the rat.
it's not what you think. i know it looks like we're cleaning dishes but actually we're having sex.
i give you kalvin ryan; so flamboyant in person so boring on paper. obviously got an opportunistic infection probably tb or pcp.
i started but i found the characters two-dimensional.
hiv clinic. so few patients so much money; [sorts his mail.] re-do the tests.
fine parasite.
what if his immune system is too strong?
his new hiv meds kicked his system out of a sound sleep. it wakes up hungry cranky spoiling for a fight. when it doesn't find an active infection starts attacking the harmless remnants of old infections. immune reconstitution syndrome.
boring! this is so not interesting. chest x-ray and find the old infections start him on steroids.
now that would be interesting. where's the coumadin?
it's for stacy's rat; death by anti-coagulation. [he reaches for a bottle.]
i don't want her back. i just want her to admit her feelings for me. i go to cuddy cuddy fires her or re-assigns her. either way i'm happy.
[picks up the phone.] hi this is mark warner 1724 spring street. listen you don't need to send that guy down we caught him. no you should send the bill to princeton-plainsboro hospital. attn: dr james wilson yeah. [puts down the phone; wilson nods thoughtfully and rather acceptingly but also seems to have been left speechless.]
hopefully mark's anger will go away eventually.
didn't seem really wild about you either.
he's angry. said so in group.
[smells a ball of cheese he brought wrapped in foil.] he's mad at you.
[sighs.] no but it's true. he resents you for being able to walk. been there. i resented you for hell of a long time.
[picks up the cell phone.] what!?
at your girlfriend's place. ignore the moaning and squeaking.
he a smoker?
not surprising. not medically relevant.
that's a typical side-effect of azt. what are kalvin's most recent infections?
[whispers into the phone.] well let's assume it's one of those. give him ganciclovir for the cmv...
in a closet. your girlfriend's other boyfriend showed up. ganciclovir for the cmv sulfadiazine for the toxo bactrim for pcp. gotta go. it's killing time. [puts down the phone.]
very interesting.
the coughing part not the in cameron part. new symptom blood vessel ruptured in his lung.
well it takes immune reconstitution off the table. what's it put on the table? [chase and foreman are silent.] its ok she's not here. you can skip the nice guy acts.
my giving a damn or not is not going to change what happened.
no edema no blood in urine.
oh this is good he's pretending to care you're pretending not to.
concerned enough about his health to stalk me while indulging in deadly street drugs. [takes a vicodin.] study in contradictions. interesting. still not medically relevant.
find kalvin's pills test for toxins [ducklings start to walk out.] foreman you're with me.
i need a consult on another case.
it's a hip-pocket deal. patient presents with a distinct neck tilt.
he's a regular runner.
none that he's complained of [they reach a vending machine house gestures for foreman to hand him some coins which foreman does automatically.]
uhh i don't think so [gets his drink from the vending machine.] no insurance.
phew! for a moment there i thought you were smart. cameron get a biopsy of calvin's lung tissue. run a spectrographic analysis.
no reason to risk exposing the entire team. then who would i torment?
well i had to mark isn't here.
oh really? how's he doing?
i had to get rid of it before steve mcqueen ate any coumadin. i named your rat. [stacy gives a look of disbelief.] steve's tilting his head. any neurologist will tell you that suggests an infection or brain stem tumor.
well we can't kill him. if it's an infection it could be caused by something in your house something that could affect you guys [he scrapes something off the floor and goes to sit beside stacy]. smell this [stacy sniffs it.] does it smell like urine?
[sniffs it.] you missing any asparagus? ok stuff these. [he hands her a bottle of antibiotics.] he doesn't get better then it's a tumor.
steve mcqueen without hair? [shakes his head.] it's a blessing he died young. [they both smile.]
she's fine probably getting bored with the question. masses in the heart and lungs what kind of cancer are we looking at?
so's an ear infection but since he didn't test positive for that either
[splutters.] do you have any idea how much paperwork cuddy is going to need signed? [cameron doesn't budge; house seems to like that idea a lot.] do it.
so how is the patient's father?
tell my dad i'm sorry?' might as well wave the red flag at a bull.
well it's not a tragedy dad doesn't want to see him he doesn't want to see the dad. you're the only one who wants them together.
he thought he was dying. dying people lie too. wish they'd work less they'd been nicer they'd opened orphanages for kittens. if you really want to do something you do it; you don't save it for sound bite.
[pregnant pause.] on the other hand [cameron sighs not getting an answer as usual.] his dad tossed him out. so what's our guy want to apologize for?
'course not! also when he's at group therapy or out for dinner with friends.
you tell your wife everything?
my bet is she mentions me to mark as little as possible 'cause she thinks that he thinks that she still has feelings for me. and you know why she thinks that?
if you're right she did tell him and i don't get through the door tonight. but if i'm right [house gets into the elevator the door closes.]
'til something happens.
we are downwind and he seems to have hearing loss.
steve mcqueen does not run from danger. antibiotics on the other hand [he picks a pill up from the floor.]
admit it you like him.
you wanna now how cool he is? his urine showed traces of hydrogen cyanide formaldehyde lead. he's a smoker. your husband's been lighting up; which is particularly stupid it could cause his aip to
i always knew.
you started two weeks after my surgery. menthols then lights after a month.
'cause it helped me monitor your misery level. one trip outside was a good day upwards of six you were in hell.
i already knew. sorry you were miserable.
you're late and hung over. [looks carefully at cameron.] or maybe not.
jealous?
don't mind me. just here for the show.
what happened to the big apology? yesterday he was all daddy i'm so sowwy.'
you should have thought of that before you stalked me. now i'm interested. [to the dad.] so what's he got to apologize for? you're the one who tossed him out.
i don't know. 'cause it's tough to brag to your hunting buddies that your son knows all the words of the wiz.
42nd street? much easier to just get drunk and beat him. explains his hating you; [dad is facepalming.] also your cirrhosis. also why the more i talk the more you sweat. what it doesn't explain is why he's gotta apologize to you. [to kalvin.] residual guilt for sharing your special toy with other boys?
just want to leave the bigot with some peace of mind after you're gone?
he steal her signature look?
yeah that certainly is shocking.
tragic tale. undercut slightly by the rapid fire delivery and constant movement. too much coffee this morning?
brother's on the down-low got to
working girls are sticklers. you're not going to poll chase? [she looks at him sharply.]
obviously not. who doesn't sleep with a drugged out colleague when they have a chance? [he gives cameron and chase a pointed look that plainly speaks of levels of satisfaction for finding out; foreman looks surprised but grins.]
we got the result for the kveim test. [shakes his head slightly. cameron sighs.]
nyah don't like to repeat myself. people will say i'm formulaic.
i can't do that steve needs two weeks antibiotics and a smoke-free environment. cigarettes aggravated his infection.
steve's infection is not contagious to humans. i'm an idiot. how did i miss mycoplasmosis? was that the kid's father?
what's he doing in the hallway? his kid getting his biopsy already?
kid doesn't have parasites.
was he still sweating?
not the rat the dad! [wilson doesn't have an answer. house starts walking back towards the dad.] where are they from?
you were right it's a parasite. cancel the biopsy. it'll kill him. [bangs his cane against the glass wall of the room the dad is in.] hey daddy come with me!
your son asked to talk to you.
[slides the door closed.] he wanted to talk to you.
did you two use to hunt together? foxes. did you kill foxes?
[walks towards kalvin.] those masses in your chest are not tumors. they're parasitic cysts from a bug called echinococcus. touch a dead fox they jump aboard they can hunker down for decades -- growing spawning shopping putting on plays.
okay it's cancer. you happy? the cysts isolate the parasites keeping them from showing up in stool samples even in blood tests cardiac--
but you've got the same things in your liver.
liver cysts have identical symptoms with one addition fever. now liver cysts we can test for. your diagnosis could confirm kalvin's. so option a we draw some blood--
you see this is why i need you here. i want you to tell your son that you won't take a simple painless blood test to save his life.
yeah yeah yeah i get it! you're really mad at him for killing himself and for destroying everything you love. i don't have time for this are you going to apologize?
[to the dad.] are you going to give me some blood?
okay. option b. why did your wife kill herself? did she hate you?
either suzanne wanted to die or she was both fat and stupid. used a twinkie instead of a gun. and girls with big appetites well they just can't get enough - of anything!
probably nibbled on every devil dog in the county!
just in case i'm not making myself clear i don't mean the delicious snack
[pats his jaw very calmly.] thank you means i can do this [uses the head of his cane to whack the father exactly where his liver is situated.] we're going to need some epi in here stat!
you said you didn't care. [house uses his cane to push the dad back against the wall by pushing it against his neck.] notice how you can't breathe? [the father sounds like he's choking/wheezing/going into shock.] now either that's the cane or i just ruptured one of those liver cysts we were chatting about and you've gone into anaphylactic shock exactly the same as your son did when he accidentally tripped against my friend's car. i'm just so excited to find out which! [house takes his cane off and the father slips to the floor clutching at his middle section.] i'm gonna schedule surgery.
two successful surgeries two lives saved. i'm over my quota. can i have next week off?
it was self defense.
you're right. i was asking for it. the low-cut blouse the 'do-me' pumps.
okay. [gets up to leave.]
i like this t-shirt.
yeah sure. why not? he hit me first.
i'm the doctor.
a little.
there's no way that mark doesn't know; [stacy turns around.] about the smoking.
then he hasn't been near you in months.
can't be easy.
why would you lie about this?
i don't care if you're sleeping with him or not but you're not so
you're lying.
i just know you.
you knew i had an angle the moment i poured soap onto a scrub brush. [stacy walks back behind her desk.] you could have thrown me out or ignored me or found another exterminator. you didn't even tell mark that i kept coming by. you let this happen because you wanna be with me.
she's over-reacting.
so you're saying i'm not allowed to have oral sex with an intern either?
the file got me on the floor of her attic with her pouring out her soul. the only thing i did wrong was get caught. [he tosses the coin and it almost hits wilson's face.]
he's too busy to service you until after work. i got a couple of minutes though. feel free to say something like what'll we do with the time left over? or you could just stew. that works as well. [he turns to wilson.] she stews before she gets violent.
uh huh any legal rights i should know about?
great. [to wilson.] and you thought this was going to be awkward. [he signs the papers.]
get a sed rate and serologies. [he keeps struggling as he can't get the lid open.] child proof. how many kids are hopped up on vicodin?
right like i'd ever get it back. chase. [he tosses the bottle to chase.]
or genital. [to chase.] go find them.
or genital. go find them.
whoa whoa foreman chase can handle the pelvic.
well what's the committee going to do to me? i haven't even met this patient.
which is why this doesn't matter; she protects chase she protects me.
chase loves me. and isn't turkish.
[is about to enter an exam room in the clinic.] you really think stacy hates me that much?
where's the ulcer?
not anymore. it perforated.
let me guess no insurance just heard about the free clinic. it's a good move. you don't want to skimp on the essentials like wristwatches mp3 players
from the doorway?
cool. i love gossip. [he puts the ear pieces of his stethoscope into the patient's ears and lets the patient hear his own lungs.] hear that crackling sound like crumpling up paper? keep listening. let me know if it changes.
wow. talk about efficient. i only need one answer - chase didn't screw up.
well i'm not a lawyer but that seems like a sucky legal strategy.
if i thought he was a 'reasonable' doctor i wouldn't have hired him.
stacy.
if by fine' you mean she had fountains of blood spurting out of every orifice then yeah i believe you.
i'm guessing those are celebratory bells.
show me the ulcer.
sweep back show me the whole stomach. [chase sweeps the camera back.] stop.
not anymore. it perforated.
she was not fine 2 hours ago. she mentioned stomach pain?
you didn't do an exam.
did you listen to her stomach? check her vitals?
yeah why didn't she go to med school like you did?! diarrhea! blood in the stool! these are routine questions--
mistakes are as serious as the results they cause! this woman could die because you were too lazy to ask one simple question!
and i responded with a number of trenchant remarks which made chase cry none of which i'm going to testify about.
unless you convince chase to roll on me.
uhh [checks the patient's file.] chuck. i'm going to break from the parable of the wicked doctor and tell a little story about a patient. let's call him buck who has low o2 stats and crackling lung sounds.
buck has idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. his lung tissue's turning to rock. there's no known cause no treatment. he is slowly suffocating.
lung transplant's about a half a million dollars but this poor sucker's got no insurance. if he tried to sign up now he'd be excluded pre-existing condition. but let me confirm with my lawyer [he turns to stacy who doesn't respond.]. she confirms. if only buck hadn't been diagnosed with fibrosis before he got insurance. so... back to the exam.
oh relax. he's got a cold and soon health insurance.
i'm sorry. i didn't realize you and buck were so close. [walks out of the exam room.]
right. it's got nothing to do with what i did to you.
[takes some lollipops from the clinic counter and puts them in his pocket.] that's why you're following me. i read some notes--
i was wrong. terribly terribly sorry.
he has great hair.
i'm gay. oh that's not what you meant. it does explain a lot though. no girlfriend always with wilson obsession with sneakers...
do you listen to what you're saying?
you know what's really killing her? chase forgot to ask a standard question about stomach pain so he missed the diagnosis so she perforated so she got sepsis so her bp tanks so she got blood clots so she lost her liver. [chase is facepalming and looking very dejected.] livers are important cuddy; can't live without them hence the name. and here's the big issue chase is a hospital employee and kayla is the sympathetic mother of those 2 jury-friendly moppets caleb and cody.
that is a medical reason! [cuddy's confused.] the family wins this hospital in a lawsuit; they'll turn it into condos. and people will die waiting outside a condo for medical care.
sub-q vitamin k and fresh frozen plasma pre-op.
well that's why i came to the best transplant surgeon in the hospital. she's dead without you.
[sighs.] thank you very much.
was it the part where he warmly clasped my hands in thanks was that too much?
the hospital lawyer asks me if i did something unethical. if i did the last person i tell is the hospital lawyer especially since she's gone all 'old testament' on me.
oh. ok then. one caveat i've moved past threesomes. i'm now into foursomes. if someone backs out then you've still got a threesome. [stacy's glaring at house at this point.] if two people back out you're still having sex. you'd be amazed. even if three people--
[he winks.] actually it is kinda cool.
5 grand. and that's just ante money. after the surgery you get another 15. though i warn you that includes the tip.
[shrugs.] it's tax free.
[nods.] great; [he pockets the envelope.] means i don't have to bother welshing on the 15 grand i would have owed you. if you don't do the surgery [he starts to walk away.] i'm going to tell your wife that you've been sleeping with a series of nurses. currently nurse cutler in radiology. now what's 600 grand divided by two?
last christmas party nurse cutler handed you one of those little hotdogs. and you didn't thank her. well that only happens when you're very very intimate. that and the fact that you've been practically dancing around with your zipper open used condom stuck in your shoe. [he walks over to pick up a sweet in a bowl nonchalantly.] your wife is apparently the only one who doesn't know.
of course i won't. i'm much too cowardly. [ayersman looks defeated.] no i'd just send an anonymous letter. now i've uh... i've got an or booked for 4 this afternoon. are you free? [eats the sweet.]
hmm. oh and for the record you are the worst transplant surgeon in this hospital. but unfortunately you're the only one who's currently cheating on his wife. [he walks out passing by the figures of himself and stacy watching the scene.]
she'd have been dead in 2 days if i hadn't made ayersman do the surgery.
tried to leave it out of the story i told you.
apparently someone sent an anonymous letter to his wife.
doesn't seem fair does it?
to make this conversation easier can we discard the fiction that we're talking about anything other than what i did to you? you're not mad because i broke into your psychiatrist's office.
okay it was a lousy thing to do but if what i'd found was that everything was all kittens and moonbeams in markville you'd be over it.
you're mad at me for letting you know what i did because you liked where things were going. and for that i actually am sorry. it was stupid. [stacy turns and leaves house throws his head back and looks fairly heartbroken and dejected.]
let me tell you a story about a patient; [he takes the earpieces out of her ears.] the patient we'll call [he checks her file.] fusan.
please chase you and this strep. get a room already.
umm... well that depends. are you going to hit [goes to stand next to foreman and points at him.] dr. house? [foreman looks at house and house stops pointing with an innocent expression on his face.]
you know a lot about hepatitis.
you're flushed. you sick?
you're hiding the fact that you're sick. now why would you do that? [he grabs sam's right arm which has two tattoos on the forearm.]
now either you specifically asked for a tattoo of a heart that's been left out in the sun too long or that is a really bad home job. it's a very common way of getting hep c which you have. you've had it a long time.
[sarcastic.] you paid someone off? that is totally unethical! get an mri for him and his sister right now.
no! no no no god no! [serious.] i think she got cancer from you.
you're surprised they're suing? you think people love chase so much they're gonna just forgo--
ooh! i've been sued by him.
i haven't lied about anything. except for the parts that i admitted i was lying about. and i'm not the one being sued. i feel funny. [he walks around to stand beside cuddy behind her desk.]
may i speak to my future former employee?
great story.
i'm sure it is. but you lied to him. you want him to sue you.
i ordered black coffee this morning and got cream. everybody screws up.
i've seen you hung-over. you weren't the day you blew his sister's diagnosis.
if i thought you'd screwed up because you were drunk i would have fired you.
you were depressed and distracted. i assumed you'd gotten a phone call from your stepmom.
good news is both your parents are dead now so no reason to screw up this bad again.
there's this interconnected network of computers or interweb where you can--
[sighs.] when he visited he told me he only had two months left. when you screwed up i did the math.
he asked me not to.
[softly.] yeah chase it was all my fault. look you got a choice. you can either tell the truth hospital settles family gets some money they get to keep their house. or you can keep up this lie family gets punitive damages they buy a jet they move to park avenue and you have to find another career.
i'm going to keep my mouth shut. legally it's better for me if you go down in flames.
i don't know. i thought you were going to get him to sell me out.
why not?
yeah. and that's not going to change unless you leave this job. or i do. so how do you deal with a coworker that you have feelings for - positive or negative. i don't want to end up like chase i don't want to get emotionally caught up and kill you.
so what do we do?
not of the patient i met the brother. never met her. you want me to go to a family reunion every time i take on a patient?
[to cuddy.] did you know this was coming?
[to chase as he walks in.] now you're fired!
out of the way cripple coming through.
take your time don't worry that there's only thirty seconds to post.
ninth at gulf street and park; five hundred on the 3 horse seminole uprising to win.
i'll burn my winnings. bigger flame.
well fat ass over there just saved you money.
i don't bet on the horses i bet on the jocks. my rider's bulimic; purges after his weigh-ins; leaves a two pound pile at the starting gate shaves valuable time off that final eighth.
is anybody here a doctor? [anica is seizing and one man straddles her and prepares to start cpr.] you trying to cop a feel?
that would be useful if she was having a heart attack instead of a seizure.
if you want to get a finger bitten off. call an ambulance.
just make the call. [house sees something interesting and pulls up anica's shirt slightly to see very discolored stretch marks/bruises.]
how should i know? tell the paramedics to take her to princeton-plainsboro. the doctor's name is house.
it does when i win. [he throws a chart on the table.] hot otb babe has grand mal and inexplicable bruising. what up with that?
spend as much time around the real people as i do someone gets sick.
no fever no infection.
except for the fact that the bruises are not petechial which means it's not dic.
what's that called when you judge someone before ever meeting them?
i was there. i have a 9-to-3 job.
good. start with those.
cushing's. explains the seizure and the bruising.
so she doesn't eat a lot of meat.
whoa whoa whoa! did you just ever so subtly order me to get her medical history?
it was a pretend in charge formality to get past the suits in legal.
you can have it. you'll also need my handicap placard. bend over.
chase killed that woman now foreman's in charge?
skip it.
[looking at races.] will i like teeny tiny moe in the fifth?
it does not ask that. [it does and he puts the form aside.]
what's your excuse?
yeah? what else turns you on? drugs? casual sex? rough sex? casual rough sex? i'm a doctor i need to know.
came here without a job. that means you didn't move here you moved away from somewhere else. [he pokes at the marks on her torso.] does that hurt?
are you on prescription meds? hormones? prednisone?
well yeah and i could reach down and get it but that would kinda spoil the whole cool move.
you vegetarian?
because you might have something called cushing's syndrome which basically means that <U+0096>
what a coincidence. i'm a doctor too.
huh? what did you just say? you were right house her pituitary tumor regrew it is cushing's uncanny how you do that.
nope cameron had three ideas. i chose one to encourage to nurture <U+0096>
you need a hug?
work smart not hard that's my philosophy boss.
okay so it's a micro-adenoma too small to see.
right it's just a coincidence that i predicted a rare condition that she happened to have a year ago.
didn't do an lp. knew what she had. [foreman stops the test.]
okay i need you to roll over on your side kiss your kneecaps.
she's here to make sure i don't paralyze you.
successfully?
i'm gonna numb the area with some lidocaine and then we're off to the races! see what i did there? i used horse racing jargon to make the patient feel more comfortable. okay here we go. [he inserts the needle anica starts and gasps.]
felt like bone. does that hurt?
you're perfect just the way you are. oops that was all me.
this is actually much harder than i remember.
eighth time's the charm. [anica cries out again.]
just let <U+0096> [alarm beeps.]
turn that thing off will you?
okay. [to nurse.] it's a hypertensive crisis. start her on iv low pressure drip titrate to systolic less than 140 she'll be fine. cameron meet me in my office.
at the risk of sounding redundant and right again she has cushing's. cushing's.
actually it has everything to do with it. cushing's plus stress equals hypertensive crisis. smart move sending the rookie.
the exact same moment that i'm futilely trying to give her an lp?
why didn't they put you in charge instead of foreman? oh yeah you're the guy that killed that woman. get a pan-man scan before she dies of cortisol od. [he makes a begging pleading face to foreman.]
i was in a crazy mood. good thing i got a new boss to back me up. although i think one of those is actually necessary. better comb through before you cancel them all. [foreman turns off the tv.]
actually i expect you to act like what you are my employee my subordinate my bitch.
my god i can't believe i got more than a year behind on my discharge summaries. gotta get caught up. oh no wait! i'm not authorized to sign these anymore! only you are.
on the bright side it still means i was right.
good afternoon. i'm going to be looking at your <U+0096> perfect. excuse me. [picks up phone.] need dr. foreman in exam room 1 for a consult. so when did this start?
you have an infection. gonna need a sample.
no i meant a sample of your <U+0096> [he looks up to see her holding a bottle of strawberry jelly. [oh boy.] okay we have a neurological problem here.
oh yeah. you can cover yourself up got what i need. [foreman enters.]
smell this. [he waves the swab in foreman's face.] smells like vaginosis but it's not really my call.
okay i'm gonna give you some antibiotics and you probably shouldn't have sex for awhile.
on an evolutionary basis i'd recommend forever.
the labs you sent yesterday put her acth at 64 picograms per milliliter. she's got cushing's something set it off. it's gotta be in her brain set her up for a venous sampling. [chase starts to leave.]
how'd you get him trained so fast? electronic collar? got treats in your pocket?
well being hospitalized a lot certainly points to nothing being wrong with you.
she's had brain surgery. you can fake a stomach ache; you can't fake a brain tumor.
venous sampling's easier.
not if you get caught breaking in.
would you shut up if i told you she wanted someone black?
nonexistent. otherwise excellent.
the world will never know. [he goes to his motorbike and turns it on.]
yesterday streets are clear. [he throws her a helmet.]
there's construction on elm. bike will be faster. [cameron puts on the helmet and gets on behind house.]
well either she's very smart or she has a severe fiber deficiency.
or just thinking outside the box here she has a vagina and trouble reading. there's three pairs of reading glasses each with different prescriptions which would be explained by a tumor pressing on the optic nerve.
and you are looking for a person with munchausen's syndrome drinks battery acid; they don't go to an ophthalmologist to get their pupils dilated.
how many hospitals have you contacted? has one doctor said she's crazy? it's not munchausen's!
if you think she's got munchausen's then obviously you've got something to show the man! a syringe in her apartment a bottle of acth.
oh right so the fact that we found nothing proves that there's something.
of course! we're both right! excellent solution. everybody's happy. come on step up foreman. if you think i'm right order me and stick a needle in her brain and if you think cameron's right send the patient home. either she'll be fine or she'll die.
nice move boss. way to cover your ass.
not because you think i'm right. you're just taking the safe route. you're a wuss. don't worry your secret's safe with me. [he starts to leave.] hey wilson guess what foreman just did!
what did mommy say; i don't get any candy in my stocking?
correcting your last note. we can't discharge her she's sick. anybody ever tell you you write like a girl?
correct but not complete.
at the end of the boy who cried wolf the wolf really does come and he eats the sheep and the boy and his parents.
it does when i tell it.
look i checked her records. all her hospitalizations were for different things. brain tumor fainting spells skin rashes seizures she's had every blood test known to man and the results are all over the map. there's only one constant low hct. the anemia's real.
true. could just be her mo. she self-induces two illnesses one always changes one never does. or maybe she has munchausen's and aplastic anemia which would mean without proper treatment she'd continue to get sicker weaker; eventually she'll start bleeding internally and die.
she will!
so far. we need to do a bone marrow biopsy.
look you kick her to the curb with a munchausen's diagnosis; you're guaranteeing that no doctor will ever listen to her again.
what if she doesn't know we're testing her?
there's probably some blood left over from previous tests.
yes i know. that's why i want to do a bone marrow biopsy. but blood tests could show a systemic disease viral or a toxin cause.
and if the results are positive? i get my biopsy? it's the safe way to go.
i need all of these tests and a pcr done on this sample.
patient's empty.
you can try.
you may not have salma's ass but she doesn't have your eyes.
see him walking down that street so i ask you very confidentially ain't he sweet? epstein-barr titers are through the roof most common viral cause of aplastic anemia. so what i'm saying is just cast an eye in his direction oh me oh my ain't that perfection <U+0096>
eh just a wee bit. could indicate <U+0096>
not all sickle-cell patients are black.
of course it is! metaphorically. look i couldn't do the tests. i tried there wasn't enough blood left over. if you just let me do the biopsy
and if it wasn't for me you would have been fired.
i don't care what anybody says i care what they do. right now blackpoleon blackaparte has got the nurses on red alert i can't get into the patient's room. so come on i'll draw the enemy fire you outflank them get in there get the bone marrow sample.
who are you more afraid of?
all the tests have not been done. you do realize that blackaparte's reign is only temporary.
crap is a relative term.
you used her real name?
whoa whoa whoa whoa wait up! it's all right she's going to stay.
oh bite me.
how'd you like another medical test?
sit.
so you don't crack your skull when you pass out. just do it. you know what colchicine is?
well don't feel bad. it's for gout. it's got nothing to do with anything you've ever pretended to have.
shut up. colchicine decimates your white blood cells leaves almost no trace. great for faking your way into hospitals.
shut up. you've been doing this for years. don't worry it's probably not your fault. when you were a kid you had a close relative with a chronic disease probably sister. and you saw all the attention she got while you were left alone ignored and it really seriously screwed you up.
shut up! i'm trying to give you what you want and save your life. you have aplastic anemia.
it means you're not just sick in the head. the problem is the rest of you appears well so i've got to make you seem as sick as you're supposed to be by injecting you with a drug that simulates the symptoms that you actually have. all you need to know is you've hit the munchausen's jackpot. i'm going to give you a cocktail of insulin for seizure and colchicine to kill your white blood count. this will absolutely confirm my diagnosis of aplastic anemia. there is one small catch. if you've actually done something to yourself to cause the anemia then i'm wrong and if i do what i plan to do then the treatment will kill you instead of saving you. so i need to know have you been taking anything besides the insulin the acth and the pills cameron left in your room?
good. give me your arm. [house sticks her with the needle.]
boo hoo.
well i obviously can't be around when it happens.
relax. you know the drill. people walk by here all the time you'll be fine. [house walks back inside as anica collapses and starts to seize.]
sorry i missed that. my hearing's been off since the ricky martin concert some chulo kicked me in the head.
say what?
labs schmabs. a good diagnostician reads between the labs.
hey hey hey we're not here to play the blame game. these things happen. sometimes doctors send people out on the street to die after other doctors warned them that they were sending them out on the street to die. there's no way you could know.
turn it off.
how long has she been in there?
she doesn't have aplastic anemia. she has an infection.
the body does crazy things.
because her self-inflicted cushing's suppressed her immune system stopped her from having a fever hid the infection. clostridium perfringens could cause the bruising the schistocytes the anemia
augmentin is a lot safer than destroying her immune system why don't we try that?
there's lots of explanations for low white count.
colchicine. i figured that she got her hands on it and just uh self-medicated.
people do crazy things.
she consented.
she smells oh so sweet.
she would have gotten sicker when i said she was gonna get sicker except cameron dosed her with antibiotics. just hold this.
hold my finger. [he cuts one of her bruises and smells it.] grapey. you have a bacterium. it's on all of us but the bruises you gave yourself with the cushing's made it a lovely home. [it's cgi time!] bacteria moved in parked their cars on the lawn there goes the neighborhood. and by neighborhood i mean your internal organs. so should we put her on the augmentin boss or do you think she infected herself with grapes? i love the smell of pus in the morning. smells like victory.
kinda digging this whole foreman in charge thing. frees me up to watch my soaps catch a movie in the afternoon have lunch with you
now cuddy's on foreman's ass not mine. [they walk out of the hospital together.]
why not? people could change you know?
last race at belmont put it all on the five. to win.
we've been over this.
that makes no sense at all.
all of these?
she had a heart condition.
she also had low blood pressure so nitro would be dangerous. little blue pills improve blood flow they're vasodilators. that's why you sometimes get the headaches.
well of course i do. the woman has a heart condition and she's on her own. a man can't nail his office assistant its national crisis time.
fine i'll pay for it. [he reaches for his wallet.] how much are the pills? she took how many?
no! i could. there's an atm in the lobby.
absolutely! [he is pathetically insincere.]
you do background checks on medicaid personnel?
yeah time's good for me too; got a reservation at a little place in the inner harbor.
best maryland crab in... maryland.
not for hours.
you did a background check on me?
you checked on my flight so you could be sure to be on a different one. thought we were past the avoidance stage.
where's your crucifix?
riiight.
hey honey how are the kids? they miss me?
what's new with mr. aphasia?
everybody covers their ass.
i'm betting there's another shoe.
i know the way you tell stories.
so it's not the drugs. he's just got such a bad rep. [ball bounces on the back of the chair again; house turns around and glares at the kid again.]
ok i gotta hang up. they're probably trying to reach me.
i'm hanging up on you now.
how high a fever? [foreman raises his eyebrows in surprise.] put me on speakerphone. and why haven't you called me?
what you think you guys could have a party as soon as the parents are gone and i won't hear about it? [chase and cameron get up from their seats to surround the speakerphone.] start with broad spectrum antibiotics for possible bacterial meningitis and an anti-viral in case we luck out and its herpes encephalitis.
well then we're screwed. which is why we need more information. [the kid from before is scrambling under house's chair trying to look for his ball.] any genetic issue with the family?
mri show anything?
ct... that's like short for mri right? excellent well i guess that saves us a lot of time.
i teach you to lie and cheat and steal and as soon as my back is turned you wait in line? [the kid has gone back to his seat and house takes out the kid's ball from his jacket pocket] get an mri and get a better medical history.
who cares? he's probably going to lie anyway. my flight's a little late; we'll be back in a few hours.
got you some coffee. [he takes out another cup for himself and throws the bag away. he proceeds to fidget and tap his fingers on the coffee cup.] so... what do you want to talk about?
when people give themselves away it's by little things. that woman over there she's not sneering at her coffee she's recovering from bell's palsy. and the cashier at the coffee place she doesn't want anybody to know she's dying of als. there's a particular sort of twitchy stiff arm that's characteristic. [pause.] and then there's you. why aren't you wearing your cross?
you keep jewelery cleaner under the sink so you won't have to go a day without it. true you forgot it that morning that our pipes burst but then you went back and waded through the flood to retrieve it. soo... why no wading today?
[reading a book entitled lesbian prison stories. ;)] either you left it behind on purpose or by mistake. the only reason you'd leave it behind intentionally is if it no longer meant anything to you. [stacy gives him a long-suffering look] but since it was a gift from your mom that would mean you had a fight with her. but since you don't talk to ghosts that's unlikely.
yeah i'm good at that. so that leaves forgetting it unintentionally but then we'd have to explain why you didn't go back for it when you realized.
nope you were in make-up when you got to the airport. can't put on make-up without looking at yourself and you can't look at yourself without touching that thing.
it's an anomaly. anomalies bug me.
i suppose it's also possible that the clasp broke but then you'd be carrying the thing around in your purse.
[immediately contrite.] so you had a fight i'm sure it'll blow over.
of course it was. mark's tired he's worried he's got mobility problems. it's normal that he'd blow up over little things.
you fought over mail delivery? [he winces.]
you were.
maybe you're misinterpreting.
[he rolls his eyes.] yeah it's all your fault. you know stacy in the original greek means relationship killer.
house.
they recharge? i just keep buying new phones.
what's his creatinine?
you have to do it just right.
either you've decided to do a lumbar puncture or you have to fire me so that i can't fire all of you as soon as i get back in charge. is cuddy there ranting?
they can handle it.
ok they can't. doesn't matter guy's not stable enough to move. so go rant in your own office.
the odds are this guy knows something we don't.
have you had any indication that he's tried to communicate something important?
that's cause you guys haven't scared him enough. i'm sure you've been all oh we'll take read good care of you why should he say anything? when you prep him tell him he's going to die. crush all hope. don't let cameron do it. cuddy you got a problem with any of that?
want me to run down and reserve you a cot with view?
checked it through.
thanks. [he looks shocked and stunned into quietness.]
right.
does mark know about this?
[he closes the door.] i have to know what's going on here cause when you have a fight with mark and you try to avoid me i have to think that--
right. but then a hotel room...
hmm. so... which is it?
really good drugs?
ok sure...
i know what it is! didn't think it was addictive.
[he puts his hand under her chin and raises her face up so he can see her face.]
i know [he smiles and dumps his cane on the bed as he moves in closer to put his hands on her waist and then leans in kiss her on the lips. after several kisses he moves back.] if you hadn't just had a fight with mark...
house.
how did the lp go? give me the reader's digest condensed version.
from infinity yeah.
ok! well call me back when you have something. [he takes the phone away from his ear probably about to put it down even as stacy leans in for another kiss when cameron's voice cuts through.]
[he hesitates then reluctantly puts the phone back against his ear.] what did he say?
sympathetic presence after a traumatic moment. [he steps away from stacy reluctantly.] classic interrogation technique. what did he say?
act the way you always do? yeah i did. what did he say?
a fluent aphasic retrieves words that are stored somewhere close to the one he wants. they can be filed by sounds or by meaning. so if he wants to say table he could say... label or he could say chair. or he could just say jabberwocky there's no way to tell.
hold on. [he puts the phone against his chest; stacy sits up on the bed.] uhh... i'm going to take this phone downstairs so i don't disturb you. is that ok? [he takes his cane from her.]
[into the phone.] keep him talking. write down everything he says. [as he opens the door of the room he looks back at her.] stacy that new make-up you bought do you mind if i borrow it?
crimson desire shows up well on sheet rock.
well you must have gotten one new phrase out of him something?
are you sure you told me everything you found in his home and office?
[surprised.] hope that's not the end of the thought. [he unplugs the charger so he can pace further afield.]
that's cynical!
no i'm just kvelling. [he exaggerates in a voice filled with tears.] our little girl is growing up! ok what's the best way to rip a woman from the side of her dying husband?
i'll take a later one.
are we in?
hi i'm gregory house; i'm your attending physician your wife's not there start talking.
ok shut up now. nice work cameron. give him the list again.
come on chase drugs didn't do this to him. even if he is an addict.
oh please. mr. sleeping pills amphetamines bring me up bring me down.
ever hear this one? build a house each wall has a southern exposure big bear comes wandering by what colour's the bear?
polar. whatever your name is patient! are you bipolar?
what's that? i can't see is he nodding?
topamax isn't just off-labeled for weight loss. it's off-labeled for mood disorders. plenty of bipolars are manic in the daytime depressive at night. he's been medicating for years with alcohol and sleeping through the bad hours. it explains the danger journalism explains everything including the kitchen sink. ok technically it's kitchen cabinets. he starts a project then he stops.
and it doesn't shut down your kidneys but what it does do--
i'm on the phone<U+0097> i'm on the phone<U+0097>
look i'm a doctor and this is an emergency call.
i'm not going anywhere.
i kick and i bite.
being bipolar makes you take risks you seek excitement. you make up stories.
fine maybe your stories are legit. people would start to wonder. annoyed politicians entire governments would be on your ass. you couldn't tell anybody you were bipolar which was fine. until you fell in love. [he turns to look at stacy.] and you wanted that life. and you hear that there's a surgical cure give the woman you love the life she wants. all you have to do is change. bilateral cingulotomy an experimental surgery that some people claim helps mood disorders.
it's not the surgery it's the secrecy! what causes recurring fever? [stacy is now seated on one of the airport chairs listening in on what house is saying.] neurological problems lethargies that you fight with caffeine pills and amphetamines. [the door to fletcher's room opens elizabeth and cuddy walk in. the ducklings and fletcher panic house on the other end of the phone line is oblivious.] it wasn't your secret psych disorder; it was your secret daily drug use. it was the secret trip and your secret surgery in caracas or buenos aires which by the way didn't work given the state of your kitchen cabinets.
what's going on?
get some blood on a slide. do not put it through a computer this time.
i'm counting on you to get me off the no-fly list.
physically his chances are good.
two people who weren't meant to be together. maybe they'll get a happy ending just because they both want it so much.
he loved her enough to convince himself he could change.
--we need the curry.
morning jimmy. anybody die while i was gone?
thought about shaving; couldn't find a razor.
sorry chief. i never kiss and tell. [they get into elevator.]
did you iron *your* shirt? everybody's flash today.
not sure. cameron keeps my calendar.
didn't have a lot of time for talking. [blatant wink.] if you know what i mean.
gosh wish i could. [to cameron.] how did the hiv test go? did you study up?
movement disorder? fascinating.
no. but maybe you will.
what does the flailing look like?
demonstration?
ooo snarky. was he like this the whole time i was gone?
it's a great idea if you want to kill her baby. [he writes pregnancy on board.] movement disorder can present in the first trimester.
peeing on a stick is only 99% accurate. get a real pregnancy test. you know the one with the blood and the hormones and the rabbit. [foreman looks put off.] oh i'm sorry. it's still your limo. whaddya say miss daisy?
lame duck's done quacking.
okay. get an mri. see if it's in her head or in her uterus. [they start to go.] you're gonna want to paralyze her. [they pause stare at him.] you run tests on a flailer somebody's gonna lose an eye.
symptomatic of lunch with cuddy?
then what do you need me for? start her on huntington's meds.
if we wait she could progress to full blown psychosis. then her kid will never get the chance to say goodbye. [to chase.] wanna tell the class how that feels?
she went from 0 to 60 in world-record time. [foreman's beeper goes off.]
yeah. that'd certainly make your job easier. well good news for margo it's not huntington's. bad news for us the psychotic break eliminates fertility meds; which means we have no idea what's wrong with her. [sighs impatiently and shakes hands at the white board.] we give you so much and you give so little!
so she raises a daughter runs a business she does charity work she volunteers at school attends pta. what makes mommy run?
cocaine. [all but chase roll eyes.] explains the psychosis and the flailing and the uncanny ability to bring home the bacon fry it up in a pan and never ever let teddy forget that he's a man.
take foreman. there's gotta be a reason for the stereotype.
the door was locked.
paranoia; must be the good stuff. [sniffs.] times like these i wish i had cancer. so what did she say?
we both know that as soon as we talked you ran to stacy so you could gossip and giggle. i need to know what she said.
because my bestest buddy says that could lead to trouble.
what exactly did she say?
she's not gonna leave mark in the middle of his rehab; too much guilt.
harsh toke dude.
killjoy.
mommy does everything for her family these days. even swallows their pills.
pop enough ritalin it can explain everything.
half-life's 12 hours. the drugs'll be out of her system. we're done. get rid of her.
oh yes the power tastes so sweet. you just can't resist. you're like a diabetic at the ice cream counter. you want to say no but you need that chocolaty goodness.
wuss.
so we don't ask *her.*
candy striper. [hooks chair with his cane pulls it toward himself. to stella:] so you like dogs? [stella nods. house whistles; bends the balloon into a shape.]
well that's strange because this bottle has her name on it. [shakes it.] and i think these are medical pills inside.
hmm. that's funny 'cause the bottle's almost empty. [to stella.] you missed a couple of days. take five.
why? unless they're not hers. [to stella.] you need some water sweetie?
come on. all the cool moms are doing it. and tox screen says you're cool too. [pulls out paper and holds it out to her.]
working late? or are you just avoiding mark?
so far. [comes in.] i'm planning on keeping a chart.
you're leaving?
yeah. much better. except for the whole walking thing.
right; saving the next generation from making bad choices about acne cream. you're running away because the kiss meant something.
with mark.
this better be important.
no i don't.
oh my god. well i'll be right there.
traffic. cinco de mayo. [to foreman.] you owe me a 100 bucks.
fear trumps anal every time.
you have the test and it's negative you gain a tenth of a point. but if it's positive you lose nearly 100 right?
fine. let's play doctors.
nothing explains everything. what if it's a crime syndicate? let's say ritalin and the fertility meds plotted a caper. ritalin takes care of the psychosis the flailing--
fertility meds are competitive by nature. they gotta do something bigger. something really unexpected.
so ultrasound her uterus this time. see if there's something growing in there that doesn't look adorable in a onesie. [they all get up and walk toward the door.]
cameron. [she turns.] i love you. [her jaw drops; he swabs her cheek.] get your test results tomorrow. [she looks bewildered and leaves.]
i was trying for romantic. [they smile at each other and hug.] still fits.
did you tell mark?
pithy.
you already did the hurting part. he just doesn't know it yet.
she's on fertility treatments. she had a blood clot. it's there.
right. they get babies. she had a blood clot and a stroke. she'll get another one and probably die if we don't find that tumor. do an endometrial biopsy.
shh.
shh shh shh shh shh.
your four weeks just expired. your reign of terror is over. mine is just begun. now go stick a needle up her hoo-hoo and find that cancer. [goes into his office.]
tv. what are you doing here?
what nurse?
no.
nope. [raises eyebrows takes feet down and turns off the tv. taking her hand they exit together and walk down the hall.]
don't know.
war wound.
every day.
they say that a lot?
not ever?
right. forgot that. [the elevator arrives.] what floor was that nurse on who was watching you?
what?
what about her?
your wife your problem. [walks away mark rolls after him.]
so what you're gonna talk to me instead? talk to your shrink.
find a bar and talk to a stranger.
didn't. [turns and walks away again.]
sorry; gotta go people dying. [he turns and walks away.]
you're not ready for this.
you're an idiot. you probably just set your rehab back three months.
liver tumor doesn't make sense.
i'm saying the symptoms don't add up. a + b does not equal liver tumor. we gotta solve for x. [he approaches board.] we gotta look at this differently. what do we know about her?
no. we've examined the file up and down. come here. give me that. why do you people always overlook the human element? [takes the file and tosses it in the garbage.] what do we know about her? margo [checks the garbage.] dalton; the woman.
never fights with her husband.
so if she can't manage now why does she want another kid?
foreman. need your help here. you want to pull a bank job. would you go it alone? if you're gonna rob a home sure. it's a one or two man crew. but a bank. lookout. getaway driver.
so here's the caper. fertility meds create a distraction. mommy had 3 refills on the ritalin in the last 3 weeks. that team goes straight for the top floor. has no trouble taking out communications [crosses out psychosis.] but--the specialist safe cracker. all he does is stroke blood clot liver tumor. [circles these on the board.] foreman was right. this bad ass even does flailing. come on. only one guy i know does that kind of work.
while the surgeons are cutting out a chunk of your liver should i have them do a hysterectomy too?
you don't have to lie to me. we're not married. you're supermom. you can do anything. you work seven days a week. you volunteer. raise a kid. yet you still somehow find the time to lie to hubby number two that you really really want to give him a child with his chin and pretty brown eyes.
because it fits. birth control pills caused hepatocellular adenoma. explains all your symptoms that aren't explained by your other lies.
[pulls out a paper.] also.
that i'm canceling the surgery. you can do the explaining. it's tricky huh? it's one thing to say you can't have a baby. it's another to say you don't want one. personally i'd make up some other lie.
could you die if you tell him the truth?
if she goes off the pill the tumor goes away on its own.
well if we do the surgery maybe we'll kill her on the table. then i can prove i'm right at the autopsy.
why don't you take it up with stacy? see which option minimizes your risk.
shocking. it's benign.
no. crazy is hanging out in the park all day talking to pigeons. margo knows what she's doing. she gave up half her liver to save her marriage.
it's twisted and manipulative i give you that. but it's also...romantic. [wilson looks at him like he's nuts.] i'm barely willing to put the seat down after i pee.
nope. i'm fine.
something you need to see. [he holds out envelope. she looks at him nervously.] knowing is always better than not knowing.
right. hiv thing came in earlier. [he holds it up.] you're fine.
it said confidential. i wanted to know.
comforting isn't it? [she leaves.]
hi.
don't do it.
i know.
nothing. nothing changes. i'm not going to change.
mark is willing to do whatever it takes. i'm not. never was.
you were happy with mark. you'll be happy again.
how do you think this is gonna end? we'll be happy for what? a few weeks few months; and then i'll say something insensitive or i'll start ignoring you. and at first it'll be okay. it's just house being house. and then at some point you will need something more. you'll need someone who can give you something i can't. [stacy sighs.] you know i'm right. i've been there before.
it does. it does. [they sigh.] i don't want to go there again. i'm sorry stacy. [he leaves and she exhales forcefully.]
i told her she's better off without me.
right. i sent her off on a whim.
don't do this.
deia rei marki. deia rei marki! [pronouncing something out of the book foreman enters.]
been avoiding you. burn unit can handle it.
friend wrote an article.
they have a cutting edge neuroscience program in india. says so right on the cover [he hands it over to foreman and looks at the file.] kid's heart rate's a mess. [he gets up.]
i assume the burn unit knew that.
his potassium's low.
except i'm sure the burn unit's pumping him with fluids which means his potassium should be going up not down.
or a bacteria lunching on his heart; or cardiomyopathy or some other very bad thing. he needs an ekg.
eww. 'kay no skin no ekg.
what have you got a date or something? [he draws a deep breath.] 40% of his body if the burns unit can prevent an infection his body will regenerate maybe 10% surgeons will do 20 or so grafts 6 months in this room he'll end up with a series of nasty scars maybe some pain but he'll live. [some nurses in scrubs are washing adam's burns and scrubbing away the burnt flesh.] unless his heart shuts down because we can't figure out what's causing the low potassium and tachycardia. we need help from a belgian doc named eindhoven.
while he was alive he invented a little ditty called the galvanometer.
go to an electronics store that's been open since before nineteen-o-five. there's a good chance they got one in the corner of the basement.
[seemingly pleased with the results.] oh yeah!
look at that.
oh no no no no no i gave him medication to prevent a migraine.
i did subsequently give him nitroglycerine which could possibly--
gave him a little headache similar to the one you're giving me now.
well if you are to try out a new migraine prevention medication on someone who can actually feel pain...
errr... yeah. [grabs his cane.] we can talk later about the appropriate discipline. [gives a low sexy growl and then limps out.]
[walking in.] who electrocuted my patient?
[searching through some books on his shelves.] what does the seizure tell us? [turns around to see chase leaning against the desk.] move.
same as you - love acceptance solid return on investment. [searching the papers on the desk.] differential diagnosis go.
[finally finds the file he was looking for on another table and picks it up.] well let's find out which get an mri. [walks out.]
[big sigh.] ok. lumbar puncture will tell us if his proteins are elevated and at least we can exclude ms. [walks out again.]
you're cramping my exits. don't tell me no skin on his spine.
transcranial doppler sonography.
i used one to look at a brain this morning.
[looks behind to check if anyone's listening in.] obviously i was doing something illegal and using nuclear imaging would have raised questions.
not definitively but patients with ms have more reactive neurons in their occipital cortex. [he walks out yet again but quickly peers back in.] ok then.
[he shrugs.] no idea.
sudden chills and light sensitivity. inexplicable.
shhh...
the dean threw me out. von lieberman just ratted on me.
i call him weber von lieberman. way eviler. shh.
i'm not here about the past he's a bad scientist.
he got the answer wrong.
shh! i'm trying to learn.
he doesn't even know what that means.
if i have a question.
why can't you just enjoy this? why can't you just be happy for me?
but i'm better at this.
bleed in the head isn't causing seizures.
[slightly too loud.] shut up!
not you.
bahut shukriya (thank you very much). [wilson furrows his eyebrows in confusion.] as your people say in india 'preciate it. [to foreman.] we'll figure out why later. and fix the bleed or he dies. talk to you in a couple of hours [foreman leaves to weber.] teri maa ki (roughly translated in your mother's.. yep he is cursing!) [he puts his hands together and nods his head in a gesture that clearly is supposed to mean thank you. the expression of confusion on wilson's face is priceless.]
err... excuse me doctor.
it's always been my understanding that err unless you follow a daily regimen no drug can prevent a migraine.
that's why you call it a breakthrough.
i'm sure your wife and lawyer do too. is there anybody who doesn't stand to make a fortune from it calling a breakthrough?
and how exactly did these studies work? you give this drug to a bunch of people and if they don't get a migraine you go voila my drug works? [he points to a lady sitting a few rows below him.] erm excuse me miss uh do you have cancer? [she frowns in disbelief and shakes her head; house looks back up at weber.] wow! [he points to the bottle she's been drinking from.] mango juice prevents cancer!
sure in india. two plus two equals five there right?
i know your math skills. they blow.
why did you publish it in an obscure journal in india? why not publish it in really really cool head cases of south philly?
yeah. the guy running slurp 'n' gulp tells me its one of the best.
see i'm thinking that publishing studies is probably the easiest way to get a pharmaceutical company to give you a reach around. and choosing a journal that no one can actually read well that's... that's shrewd. [wilson is going facepalm beside him.]
sure you do. dick.
oh my bad. something to do with your face. i always think your name is dick.
here.
yeah you were always the grown-up. do the responsible thing. tattletale!
i cheated then you're cheating now! your drug doesn't work.
i tested it.
[quickly looks over at wilson.] room 2134.
that's so close-minded. he's not abnormal he's... special.
what? you mean while he was se-- [he suddenly gasps in the middle of the word and slams his hand down hard on to the table. cameron jumps a little in surprise. house's expression could really either be interpreted as immense pleasure of the orgasmic variety or immense pain.]
i'm having a migraine.
hah. yes. i was right. [a strong burst of pain hits him hard and he groans before pushing his clenched fists against his forehead.]
[weakly.] no i got work to do. just give me sumatriptan for the pain and verapamil so it doesn't recur. i heard the patient had fun in the hyperbaric chamber.
gotta schedule me some time in there.
it's legal in india. i was disoriented.
nothing can hurt my heart.
differential diagnosis for getting off. [sits himself down on a chair at the big table.]
[pushes the chair aside and lies down on the floor under the table.] different diagnosis for ejaculation. [he takes a huge book off the table top and uses it as a pillow.] don't make me say that again.
then guess.
i wish.
actually chase has a point; the brain is like a huge train station. if the switches get-- [looks like the pain is back full swing he gasps.] -- you're the neurologist talk for me.
he's a lucky kid. let's not fix him until the burns heal.
all very bad things. no way to look for any of them in his condition.
heyy! i do the metaphors.
dominic larrey.
he was napoleon's surgeon in chief. cleaned a lot of battle wounds.
and with bugs.
ohh! [he grimaces.]
[points at the mug.] need something to wash it down.
coffee's closer.
i had to prove--
right. this isn't a migraine.
the meds are supposed to prevent migraine.
god i wish the pain [turns his head to give wilson a pointed look.] would go away.
[suddenly wakes up and looks at the ducklings all looking worriedly at him.] lower.
not softer lower. frequency of your voice is grating.
i'm super. patient?
which means your regular old infection isn't causing his brain dysfunction which means there's an underlying condition which means we gotta get inside his head. do a lumbar puncture.
c2 c3.
ask the parents if they prefer to have their son in a wheelchair or dead.
his proteins aren't elevated?
what if there was tingling in his extremities prior to the crash?
i gotta be on something. something's interrupting his neurons chitchat like lesions.
what about adam?
good point.
yeah you can finish the sponge bath in a minute.
i didn't page you to put him out; i paged you to wake him up. why are these lights so damn bright?
thank you. come on i need to talk to him.
he won't remember.
god you're good you're putting me to sleep! i know he's going to be in pain i know you disapprove i'm his attending. wake him up.
i'm doctor house.
it's going to get a lot worse so answer fast. before the accident did you experience any numbness or tingling in your fingers? [adam looks down at the burns on his chest he's panicking and scared and in a lot of pain.] you got burned it's healing. i need an answer!
any tingling in your arms or legs?
adam! you gotta listen to me! did you feel anything?
get everyone in my office. [he limps past her.]
kid's screaming gave me a headache. gotta take an aspirin.
[he slowly looks up at her.] i'm hallucinating.
i saw music.
shhh... [we see cameron through house's eyes she's all blurred up. we also hear her from house's ears and she echoes badly.]
why's it so dark in here? beautiful day outside open the shades let the sun shine in.
it's still tuesday right?
i took something.
err... a little of this little of that. and i was wrong with our patient he's depressed.
nope. told me he pissed his pants and he blacked out.
uncontrollable urination and blacking out are good predictors of what?
which means the seizure he had when you tested his heart was at least a second seizure.
no but you know what is? depression and anti-depression medicine.
yeah but you know how much crap he's got in his system from dealing with those burns the guy could have the spanish armada floating through his bloodstream and we wouldn't know about it. until they started firing cannons.
this is a brain with too much serotonin.
antidepressants fake brains into thinking they have more serotonin than they actually do. every 10 million or so cases sets off a chain reaction; produces too much enough to fry itself.
going to talk to the kid again seems nice.
why? did he say he doesn't like me?
everyone's a tattletale. [he switches off the lights in the office and leaves.]
is your son depressed?
i'm doctor house.
if i didn't wake him i wouldn't have learned what caused the crash. we think he had a seizure.
well if he hadn't had the brain problem he wouldn't have the burns. on the other hand if you hadn't put him on the atv he also wouldn't have the burns. you can debate your personal responsibility after i leave. i need to wake him up again. i need to know if he's taking antidepressants.
but you don't know do you?
hmm... that's sorta my point. at sixteen they'll tell anyone anything except their parents.
yeah i know about the pot and the cocaine.
you sure? are you having him followed?
sixteen. way to go.
but if he was depressed...
bet-his-life-on-it sure? just hypothetically.
okay.
kid's happy; happy happy happy.
seizure disorders aren't causing orgasms.
would have seen it on the sonogram.
[shakes his head.] liver enzyme tests were normal. [he looks like he's thought of something and gets up to go out again.]
to take a leak.
can't come in here you're not sterile.
seriously millions of bacteria microbes on you. he'll die of sepsis.
oh if i had a nickel for every time i've heard that. relax. are they going to sue us? if i'm right i save his life. if i'm wrong he's dead no matter what i do. either way how much have i really hurt them? [house has loaded up a syringe with whatever it is he plans to inject adam with.]
you're not sterile; do you want to kill the kid?
[prepares to use the syringe.] no pain no gain.
[has paused by that point and is inspecting something on adam's wrist.] they're right he's not depressed.
what's that on his wrist?
why on his wrist?
his back his torso everything's a mess forearms are clean. except right there.
it's a perfect circle.
maybe. [he inspects adam's fingers and finds a yellow nicotine stain on the side of adam's middle finger.]
does your son smoke?
[smiles.] so he talks to you about sex crack anything except cigarettes. he has a cigarette burn on his wrist also a fading nicotine stain between two fingers. bad news your son has a filthy unhealthy habit. good news he's trying to quit. bad news the quitting is killing him. good news i can cure him. bad news... nope that's the end of it.
no-smoke meds are antidepressants. crappy ones you can get over the internet are loaded with whatever antidepressants they can get cheap. [foreman walks out and hands house his cane.] since mommy and daddy obviously didn't take him to a pediatrician. sorry i was wrong about him being depressed. [to foreman.] treat him.
[swivels his chair around.] why would i do that?
how about because lsd acts on serotonin receptors in the brain which can stop a migraine in its tracks? i'm just saying that's also a possibility. how did you know about it?
well either that or i also took a whole bunch of antidepressants which short-circuited the lsd. i'm just saying that would also explain it.
you're kidding really?
i didn't know people actually read emails. the delete button is so conveniently located--
why would i do that?
no. we're even.
an eye for an eye lsd and antidepressants. everything in balance. [he starts tossing the ball into the air and then catching it.] buddhists call it karma and christians call it the golden rule jews call it... [cuddy gives inquiring look.] i don't know. rabbi hillel said something poignant. universe always settles the score.
no but it should.
hey paula.
i'm looking for a distraction. you don't need to talk to do that do you?
by osmosis.
didn't seem like riding weather.
infarctions hurt that's what they do.
could be good could be bad. thanks for the differential. any other options?
i did the rehab thing.
the guy wanted me to visualize the healing. (e opens his pills.) i can do that at home.
it's a very simple equation; more pain more pills. (he takes a pill.)
you had me at teenage supermodel. (he enters the elevator.)
wow you should be a model. are you really 15?
i'll be the one saving her life today; assuming she's dying. who are you?
from the looks of it not a single thing. i probably should stop staring and check out the file. so what set off the brawl? she stand in your light?
i'm sure she was delightful in her youth. and then you passed out.
yeah sounds like a medical thing. it's called cataplexy; cat fight and cataplexy on the catwalk. cool. how much were you drinking?
forget it. we'll find out from the tox screen.
no. how long have you had the sweats?
any other complaints?
okay. here's how this works; my lackeys will be by shortly to draw some blood collect some urine any other fluids you've got they'll do some other doctorly stuff and we'll be in touch. (he walks out into the hall where cameron is waiting.)
have you seen her?
yeah but there's something about her. something in her eyes a kind maturity.
she's a fashion model on the cover of magazines. they hold her up as a sexual ideal; the law says we can't touch her for three more years. how hypocritical is that?
history. right knew i was forgetting something. you should do one of those while you're writing the labs and the tox screen. (he hands her the file.)
he's right.
evidence to the contrary; the rounded hips the perfectly sculpted bountiful breasts.
symptomatic of turning fourteen. two clinic hours says that those love apples were hand crafted by god. (foreman scoffs.)
i do now.
could be relevant. come on cameron there's nothing to be ashamed of many women develop breasts -- (he gets up while he's talking and stumbles they all look at him.) no i'm fine.
detox her.
and in four weeks we'll know you're right. or we'll know that cameron's right and the pretty girl will do milan next fall in a wheelchair. put her in a coma pump her full of naltrexone. cut the four weeks to one night.
she's not dead.
i don't think so. (he starts to walk away.)
(he stops and faces the father.) did you ever get a paper cut? a really nasty one between the fingers? multiply that by about a billion and you just barely approach the kind of suffering she'll experience if we wake her up now. we're committed to this. she's out till morning go get a book. (he walks away.)
oh poor you. (he pulls out his pills.)
i take it you're married. (he takes a pill.)
you must be witty. when's she due?
because i'm doing her. you've got couvades syndrome; which is just a fancy way of saying you should stop whining. millions of women have got the same thing they're not bugging me. you're suffering from sympathetic pregnancy. gotta go. people dying. whole circle of life thing. (he gets up to leave.)
no it's all in your hormones. good news is no ones gonna lecture you if you smoke and get drunk.
cameron chase and the dark one; foreman right? patient flat lined for like 30 seconds got to be oxygen deprived for longer than that to lose brain function.
her brain's fine.
no. i'm saying what i'm saying. her brain's fine.
she's got post traumatic stress disorder.
show me a woman on heroin who looks like that (he hold up a magazine picture of alex.) and i'll show you a woman who's been sexually abused.
he manages her career travels the world with her at her side 24/7; he's either a very good dad or a very bad dad. you saw that tuchas would the fact that she's your daughter really stop you?
her brain is running away from reality. when the drugs can't do it anymore it starts to shut down.
when you guys are done talking do an mri and an lp; when her brain checks out as normal then we'll know that daddy really really loves her.
i had a funny uncle.
it's personal.
you got a problem with a call i make question the call don't make it personal.
(house looks like it may have made an impact.) thank you. are you doing your daughter?
we should probably talk privately huh come on walk with me. (foreman shakes his head.)
he's not. sure he's not. she is a babe though.
your glands are fine. so now you're my patient. you've got doctor-patient confidentiality no worries. so what did you do to her?
hard to imagine anyone not wanting to nail her.
it's a compliment. the heart shaped ass those perfect perky all natural breasts.
no that's your daughter you were talking about. (house opens his magazine.) she just instinctively knows how to walk. designers just love that heart shaped ass those perfect perky--'
oh that makes sense. so you compartmentalize. when you're dealing with the press you're her manager. when you're helping with homework you're her dad. when you're making sweet sweet love you're her manager.
do you love her?
do you love her?
do you love her enough to admit that you slept with her? psychological conditions can manifest themselves in physical problems. sometimes these can be extreme enough to kill. there are treatments but only if there's a diagnosis. are you going to admit that you slept with your daughter or are you just gonna let her die?
ptsd. get her a psych referral and pack her bags. he did her.
daddy thinks so. could be mistaken said he was drunk could be some other daughter.
doctor-patient confidentiality.
is it okay if i save her life first or do you want to make sure daddy doesn't get visitation rights to the grave site?
it's got windows. (she glares at him.) fine arrest him. use cuddy's handcuffs.
(loud and angrily.) yeah i'm distracted. i'm all hung up on this fifteen year old patient who's cataplectic can't remember what she had for lunch and is rapidly losing control of her body. and i want her father here in case they've got any more secrets that i need to know about. now if you're not too distracted go take out a piece of her brain and stick it under a microscope. (he sees wilson out in the hall.) wilson! (wilson stops and waits.)
no lets keep playing pin the diagnosis on the supermodel until she's dead. (house joins wilson in the hallway.)
only for a minute.
three. i need your help.
look i'm a little busy right now. not supposed to talk during these things. got time thursday?
(smiling.) you'll have to check with cameron.
quick god smite the evil witch! (wilson wisely says nothing.)
god why have you forsaken me?
i figured as much.
you think i have a conversion disorder? you want me to see a shrink.
listen none of this has anything to do with stacey.
aw. you miss stacey too?
cameron you going to tell cuddy or has she already got you wired for sound?
so white is out that just leaves grey.
you had to do what you thought was right. they call it grey area because you never really know what's there. we can't test for any of those things.
you can torture yourself all you want. what if everything we're seeing is just smoke signals.
tumor. if she has cancer anywhere in her body she could also have paraneoplastic syndrome which could be causing antibodies to attack her brain. antibodies are stupid that way.
fifteen year olds who look like that are awfully rare. it would explain the aggressive behavior the cataplexy the memory loss even the twitching. it's perfect.
then let's make sure it is there.
sure there is the squeeze the tube test.
but the twitching should stop right about now. (the twitching stops.)
could've just been a coincidence. twitching does tend to stop and start. let's be sure. (he squeezes the tube and she twitches.) the ivig vacuums her blood neutralizes the stuff that's making her twitch. it's actually kind of cool. (he does it again.) i wonder if could make you dance.
no all i did was prove that she has cancer.
i need a favor.
it'll help us both. i need a shot of morphine in my spine.
it's not enough. get a syringe.
yeah write that on the insert.
i don't want them knowing.
that i'm in this much pain. i don't want them questioning my judgment. i can't ask wilson because he figures its all in my head.
(he throws his cane and pulls his pants down.) well what about this?
is this in my head? (whoa he has a wicked scar.) cause i could swear i remember a thigh muscle being here. (he breathes heavily.)
it's gotta be cancer.
so i just randomly predicted she'd respond to ivig? her twitches are gone her memory's getting better.
if the increased pain's psychological no drugs gonna help.
you're right. the more i talk to you the more the pain floods back. (he looks at a scan.) knew the twins were real. chase owes me. you check the pancreas?
you check the bones? there are a lot if bones i think.
ovaries?
differential diagnosis.
you gotta learn to let go foreman.
(snaps fingers.) wrong. what it wouldn't have done was medically disappear nothing to stop it from magically disappearing. she was watching me start and stop the medicine.
not consciously but if her subconscious is trying to get away from it all cancer's got to be a lovely vacation spot. tell her you've got to give her a fresh iv. don't tell her you're starting her on saline. see if the twitching comes back.
how did you get my pager number?
problem is if i give you an epidural you won't be able to feel when to push.
pretty sure i am. you just can't appreciate it because you're in pain.
oh shut up! you've got yourself the perfect man; a woman. he's got more estrogen coursing through his veins<U+0097>(light bulb.)
who did her vaginal exam?
did she have hair?
right now i'm getting at whether or not she had hair down there.
she's manipulative yet completely docile. everybody tells us that outburst on the catwalk was out of character. she's never had a period.
i'm thinking she's the ultimate woman. (he stops to speak to a nurse who is on the phone.) i (he hangs up the phone by pressing the button.) i need to schedule an mri.
because we changed your medicine back to the real stuff. stop talking.
that's what i said; in the vain hope that you wouldn't feel the need to also say it. stop talking.
the ultrasound would be the way to go if you were looking for ovarian cancer.
that.
looks like a tumor doesn't it?
yep.
we found a tumor.
technically no.
no it's cancer. but he has cancer on his left testicle.
his dna says you're wrong. frogs and snails and puppy dog tails. you've got male pseudohermaphroditism. see we all start out as girls and then we're differentiated based on our genes. the ovaries develop into testes and drop. but in about 1 in 150000 pregnancies a fetus with an xy chromosome a boy develops into something else. like you. your testes never descended because you're immune to testosterone. you're pure estrogen which is why you get heightened female characteristics; clear skin great breasts. the ultimate woman is a man. nature's cruel huh?
no a joke would be me calling you a homo. see the difference? i'll schedule him for surgery.
anger it's just the cancer talking. put your clothes back on. i'm going to cut your balls off. then you'll be fine. (she covers up crying and looks at her dad who turns to look out the window.)
post op. i sent him slash her up for a psyche visit.
good news is i don't think dad's going to be sleeping with him slash her again. see now it's gross. i need another shot.
a few hours ago.
if i wanted to be psychoanalyzed i'd get wilson to give me the shot.
if you would be more comfortable i might be able to deal with a few cc's less morphine.
what did you give me? i told you i wanted--
cool.
no. that's impossible.
the shoes aren't right. [chase and cameron are confused of course] here's how testicular cancer would manifest itself. first the patient would get the exact symptoms that he's got then foreman would examine him then he'd suspect testicular cancer on the count of the symptoms being so perfect then he'd stick a needle in it then he'd call a surgeon. and while that guy operates the rest of us would be out bowling. and since we're not wearing bowling shoes the disease obviously did not progress in that fashion.
sure if you call a micro-abscess in his brain clean.
what you don't trust me?
neat! you can see through my hand!
or it's an infection. when guys have brain-crotch problems it's usually the result of using one too much and the other too little.
so treat him for all 3. stat.
no negative means he probably doesn't have it which means he probably has cancer.
we're wearing the wrong shoes for testicular cancer. they're perfect for lymphoma. [he looks down at their shoes] except chase's they're just goofy.
lymphoma could cause infiltrates in his reproductive organs and his brain. if it does advance he's dead no matter what we do. [he starts to walk out the door] so give him the std meds and hope the tests were wrong.
spinook. [takes up the box of chocs] who's the lucky woman?
no i don't want to know who gets the chocolates; i want to know who you're having the affair with.
norwegian chocolate. frankly you buy that stuff the terrorists win.
gifts express guilt. the more expensive the expression the deeper the guilt. that's a 12 dollar box so that means you haven't slept with her yet or she wasn't that good.
really? when did that change?
[is surprised but hides it as he closes the door] actually at your age as long as you're careful the risk of you getting pregnant is pretty limited.
you mean calm as in... peaceful lake on a cool summer evening? or in the lesser used meaning of nothing can ever bother you again because life has absolutely no meaning? high dose of depo provera will chemically castrate you.
[draws a deep breath] ok... i'm going to get up to leave now. i'm going to walk to that door turn the handle and then you're suddenly going to decide that you have to tell me the truth. i'm going to have to turn around and come all the way back. you see the thing is my leg hurts. can we cut the walking out of the equation?
[is puzzled. pops a vicodin] any particular variety? guernseys? holstein?
oh god.
make love not belts. beautiful.
oh relax; it's something we doctors deal with all the time. and i'm going to write you the name of a drug you don't need a prescription and looks just like depo provera.
oh god no. that stuff has all sorts of nasty side effects. it's real medicine. now this is all you need your frat buddies will be completely fooled. you tell them how appalling the doctor was lots of laughs.
i didn't ask him to take the medicine; i asked you do give him the medicine.
he's lying.
[spots wilson talking to a nurse] wilson! how long can you go without sex?
no seriously a week? a month?
i didn't say you were. not in this conversation. [wilson looks fed up and walks away] i'm talking about a patient!
well not like air but as a biological imperative sure we do. there's two things we get stupid for - money and sex and since money rarely enters the bloodstream. was his daughter in the room when you asked if he had sex?
[checks his watch] it's almost noon. the little girl would go to lunch. soon as she's out the door you're going to get paged. then you page me.
lunch is early huh?
hi i'm doctor house. i hear you'd rather die than admit you had sex.
right coz she's what? 22?
she probably knows that's happened already. roll over.
[he takes out some needles and preps them] so smart. you must be very proud. roll over.
is that the one that makes you pants feel funny? i'm starting you on a cocktail of std meds.
cheese is the devil's plaything.
well you're obviously completely over her.
you're certainly setting a good example for her.
he met a woman in church.
crash cart!
shut up.
40 milligrams (some drug i can't make out what he's saying above the beeping of the monitors) knock him out.
it wouldn't.
so what is it? a disease that attacks his brain heart and testicles. i think byron wrote about that.
way to a man's heart is through his stomach. [he circles acid reflux on the whiteboard]
seems there are other ways to kill people besides having sex with them. [he tosses the marker to chase; foreman looks suspicious as he tries to work out what house is thinking]
you don't need this so much. [he extubates henry] problem is not your lungs it's your heart. that italian cheese thing at the church - what sort of cheese?
i'm having a fondue party. was it sheep cheese?
was it soft?
taste like crap?
[takes a container out of his pocket and pops a small cube of cheese into henry's mouth] taste like this?
that was regular low fat american. i added some bacteria for flavour.
it's pretty much on everything. especially the unpasteurised sheep cheese they make in the alps. that stuff will give you brucellosis. key to a long life - exotic women and boring cheese. i'm going to start you on rifampin and doxycycline.
99.9% of christians have so much acid in their stomach they become churning cauldrons of death for all those nasty brucellosis bugs. but you were taking antacids for your acid reflux so that turns your digestive tract into a pleasant scenic river for all those bacterial tourists. [cgi of acid in stomach killing bacteria then of henry's stomach where the bacteria just float through]
absolutely. your socks don't match which means you got out dressed in the dark which means you don't want to wake your wife which means you don't want to talk to her which means--
oh that. no. come on i'm basing it on cheese!
we'll know before that. if i'm wrong he'll just keep getting worse and slowly die. and if i'm right either we caught it in time he gets better or we didn't and he goes into cardiac arrest at any moment. [house scores at foosball!]
are you going to tell her?
because you think that getting it off your chest will let you sleep better. it won't. you'll end up sleeping on my lumpy couch.
why are you playing foosball here at 8 o' clock at night?
[starts walking off] go home and have sex with your wife.
other than that how's he doing? [the ducklings look a little disbelieving] seriously. his brain testicle lungs tonsils. how's all that other stuff doing?
so... all he needs is a heart and he's out of here.
he's a prime candidate for transplant. doesn't smoke. drinks moderately. his tox screen is negative for illegal drugs and legal ones. surveillance blood culture show absolutely no sign of any lingering brucella bacteria.
told me he was 65. liar. i'm out of here.
he's in excellent health. this was his first hospitalisation since breaking his leg at 23. or 22 i'm not sure anymore.
so you're saying that old people aren't as worth saving as young people?
no i get it; women live longer so they should get preference right? the african-americans they die a lot younger so to hell with them.
if the test is who gets to use it the longest you can either be a racist or a hypocrite.
how old are you doctor? when do we get to toss you on an ice flow?
oh i'm on pins and needles. i wonder how you'll decide.
they made the right call.
i was advocating for my patient. [he signs the letter anyway]
advocating for my patient. i gotta go clinic duty. i need you to get me the files on everybody who dies here today.
[as he walks out] nope!
moooo!
which one?
not which type which one? i want a name.
not it she. or he. i wanna know her dreams her hopes.
hey i'm not the one who said he was in love. people who actually have this condition rationalise it they dismiss it they don't elevate it to the level of poetry. plus there's a wooden splinter in there. so either you hit yourself with a 2 by 4 or elsie has a pick leg. i'm off duty at 6 give yourself another whack and come back and scam somebody else.
technically i don't have to treat anybody before running a series of painful and often humiliating tests. [he takes out a needle and shows it off to intimidate the patient]
unless she has a bionic heart. what's next?
babies are useless they got hearts the size of ping-pong balls. next.
yes?
if you really cared about me you'd find me a better corpse.
bad one i hope.
give me her file.
age?
young damn.
smoker?
find out. [pops a vicodin]
overweight?
excellent. our odds just went up.
60% of potential donor hearts get tossed in the trash because there's something wrong with them. with fat people it's closer to 80.
big fat sloppy heart beats no heart all [he winks at her before getting into the elevator and the door closes]
are you mr neuberger?
i'm doctor house. need to ask you a few questions about your wife.
i'm afraid i don't know that. could you tell me about her accident?
any problems with her health until now?
police say it's important.
how high?
any other symptoms?
i didn't know. shouldn't have made assumptions.
i'm sorry for your loss but i need your wife's heart.
means we got lucky either that or she's getting lunch. [he chases cameron away from the computer] dead woman's last name have a 'u' or a 'w'?
is that a problem for you?
[types it into the computer then starts reading the file] three minutes ago... her organs were officially declared not viable. time to go dumpster diving.
fortunately she didn't have hep c.
her history says otherwise. her husband told me she was running a fever with stomach pains not symptomatic of hep c.
again sorry. but we need to talk.
his wife signed an organ donor card.
i can use them! i just need some time! committee says they won't take her heart. another committee says a guy can't have a heart. it's a marriage made in heaven. i can find a surgical team that can do this. classify it as experimental it's not going to screw with any numbers. this is what she wanted; she wanted her organs to help another--
she's not she's dead! she's not in pain she's not suffering. it's just her... meat we're dealing with here.
not anymore.
i respect the living.
i never said that i was her doctor.
it's not over.
this girl's father will die by next weekend unless he gets your wife's heart.
no it's hugely manipulative.
hey listen you take your wife off life support and i'll have forgotten about this in two weeks. gale here on the other hand--
whatever. you're mad at me fine i get that take it out on me not on her.
fever stomach pain raised liver enzymes.
worse than that she's dead.
yeah. so what is it? enzymes indicate--
we're going to cure her.
mwahahahaha. doubt it. just want to get the infection out of her heart before we get the heart out of her. the fever indicates an infection.
let's assume just for fun that the answer is something that might be helpful.
like that. do an mri stat.
question was never is it hep c? question was given that it's not hep c what is it?
what if she was sloppy about washing her hands after pooping?
the amebias started in her liver and spread to her blood that would explain all her symptoms. except for the crushed skull but i'm assuming that's from the car crash.
[taking a patient file] 10 grams each.
right. so we'll destroy her retinas and damage her hearing. whoever wants those parts is having a very bad day. couple of hours on the meds and she'll be feeling great.
got your labs. do you eat guinea pigs?
how about hamsters? or mice? humans?
absolutely nothing. blood work is perfect. you got lots of vitamins minerals all kinds of proteins. including a little something i like to call 'bovine serum albumin' which you get from eating the animals mentioned. or cow. you don't really worship cows. so i have to wonder what could be more humiliating than someone calling your girlfriend a cow and not being metaphorical.
[takes the photo] nice.
well either that's a very old photograph or it's your step mom.
still. cows.
step.
[takes out paper to write the prescription] you're not going to have any fun at graduation. [patient sighs in relief]
keep up the good work. [he walks around to the other side of the counter] your shirt is ironed. that means you haven't told your wife anything.
[halts on his way out of the clinic] you're saying i'm right?
[is silent. his pager goes off] does it occur to you that if you need that kind of a friend that you may have made some deeper errors.
stop the meds.
either we're wrong and our heart is unusable or we're right but the treatment we have to give her will make her heart unusable. i'm sorry. you can pull the plug now. find me another body. that fat guy on the other end of the service didn't look so hot.
you were ready this morning.
alternate theories?
what's our second best hope?
she's a fridge with the power out. we start poking around inside the vegetable goes bad. no offence.
those things never cover for any of the really cool toxins. [to foreman] run the screen again for... whatever you can think of. [to chase] you keep the other patient alive [to cameron] you check out her school and i seem to need to hire another doctor to go search her home. [to donald] come on.
[inspects some stuff inside a cupboard] does your wife dye her hair?
[takes out a bottle of hair dye and closes the cupboard] guess this must be yours then. can you think of anything else she might have lied to you about? any drugs she gave up when she married you?
do you use this drawer?
[checks the bottles] and sleeping pills.
ok. [shows another bottle] you on a diet?
quite the insight. she lied to you about her hair colour and didn't want you to know she thought she was fat. unless you never lied to her about anything that huge i think you can probably let those slide.
but not the fever.
like what?
[takes the photos from her and starts going through them] neither interesting nor helpful. [until he finds photos of naked boys doing interesting things] this at least is interesting.
sex with teenagers isn't interesting? where did you grow up?
[deep in thought] what if the cyst isn't a cyst?
i said it's not a cyst i didn't say it was nothing. what if it's a scar?
you have anything better? test her. then start her on ceftriaxone.
i think that's the first time those words have been uttered in joy.
start him on dobutamine.
[thinking for a moment] hopefully tomorrow it'll be in his system. [he picks up the phone and makes the call] i need two ors and the transplant team.
she... had amebiasis. we just found a different way to get rid of it.
i didn't want him going postal on us. soon as his wife's heart's in our hands you can tell him about the gonorrhea. [cameron gives him a look] he's gotta be tested. preferably before he gets any sympathy sex.
you idiot. you told her.
want a beer?
you blow dry your hair?
you blow dry your hair?!
i think the word you're looking for is obsessing. you've been at it for almost an hour.
i don't want in i want sleep!
this isn't gonna work.
you. staying here. [taking vicodin.]
you think we should try counseling first? why d'you want to sleep on a couch anyway? you've got money. at least until the divorce is finalized.
awesome a sex fiend with a swollen tongue. just think of all the places i can make foreman search. [he appears to be trying to poke a hole off of a pop-top can with a sharp object. smart.]
no such thing. [he gets a hole and quickly drinks the can from the hole in the bottom. now that's a way to consume an energy drink!]
testing a new caffeine delivery system.
a hundred bucks says they're as miserable as the next couple.
you're looking for something. if you're happy you've got nothing to look for.
okay i say we stop the ddx and discuss that comment.
[writing on the whiteboard] what if the problem's not in his throat?
says who?
since most patients can't tell their ulna from their anus i'm guessing this guy also doesn't know the difference between choking and suffocating. his throat might be fine his lungs might be messed up. get more blood a chest ct and a body plethysmograph. unless of course you think we should be asking the patient where his anus is first. [he leaves.]
pull up your pants.
nope not your prostate. herpes.
herpes. your turn. if it makes you feel any better half the patients who come into this place have some sort of crotch rot.
had any sex in those 20 years?
then that's how you got it.
bummer. take this once a day. tell your wife to do the same. it's not going to cure it but it'll lessen the frequency of the outbreaks.
you got any kids?
any of them take guitar lessons?
tennis art acting?
give this to her sensei. oh wait does your wife play tennis?
that's what i figured. it never hurts to make sure. [gives him another script] for miyagi.
can't be idiopathic. idiopathic means without a known cause.
what you meant was you don't know what the cause is just say that and we can avoid this conversation. [he stops juggling catching the oversized tennis ball behind his back.] no applause? [chase starts to move his hands but stops. bwah.] what's his current condition?
then we can wait.
for whatever you can't figure out to cause something else. you know it's going to.
now we've got something to discuss. what causes both lung scarring and the itchy red blotches?
right but what besides what's obviously not caused both the lung scarring and the splotches? [he heads toward the bathroom.]
to complete the second half of the caffeine delivery system. either talk loud or get in here. [foreman and chase enter cameron decides to talk loud.] same color coming out as going in <U+0096> think that's a marketing thing?
did we? where's cameron?
[yelling] need an allergy expert in here! [cameron rolls her eyes and enters.]
you don't know that. chase thinks that food allergies should still be on the table.
no. lungs skin. skin lungs. sklungs? lungs skin. throat. [he stares at the rust on the urinal's plumbing.] heavy metal toxicity. it explains the lungs the itching the swelling in the tongue and throat.
i never said i didn't believe it. i just said i had good reason to doubt it.
now i have good reason to doubt those doubts.
now aren't you glad you joined us? search their house and screen his hair and blood for lead. and test for mercury and arsenic while you're at it. chase find out what the resort cooks with if they've repainted recently or did any plumbing repairs.
then it'll be challenging.
good lord what is that smell?
stuffed with what? vomit? [he opens the closet to put in his coat and has to kick things out of the way to close it again.] i thought you were going to a hotel.
what's today? where'd you get all that stuff?
don't you ever eat anything that doesn't look like it's been rolled onto your plate by a dung beetle?
no. just better than it looks. how much beans and rice d'you think you'd have to eat from a ceramic pot painted with lead-based paint to get enough lead in your system to damage your lungs?
adult.
it's a complete moron working with power tools <U+0096> how much more suspenseful can you get? [he grabs the remote.]
no you're about to watch something. i'm watching something. see the difference.
you think ants are the problem?
these aren't pancakes. these are macadamia nut pancakes. wilson made them and they're amazing.
little silver dollar slices of heaven.
forget the 72 virgins. if i blow myself up in a crowded restaurant i think i'm asking for a plate of these babies. [cameron has naked desire on her face.] was the ant small and red or big and black?
halle berry brown or beyonce brown?
[to foreman] is there a difference. army ants could devour dissolve eat a cow in a matter of hours. australian bull ants on the other hand are nasty little bastards but more of a nuisance than a threat. [chase nods his agreement.] no surprise there.
well then that's not it. how much clay did he eat at the resort?
tox screen?
run them again. call the resort find some disgruntled employee to talk to. go back to the home <U+0096>
the symptoms say it is.
well who're you gonna believe? the symptoms or the test?
cameron says it's not.
start treating him for lead poisoning it's the most likely heavy metal. and yeah you can test him for allergies for dairy wheat and legume. [the team leaves. chase tries to steal a pancake but house slaps his hand away.]
more significantly it's yet another classic sign of heavy metals.
no. lupus progresses slower there'd be joint pain.
it's not lupus! the symptoms don't match.
heavy metal toxicity could cause vomiting.
he's choking on his tongue not his feet.
still not his throat but you're getting closer.
if you're so sure why waste time with tests? start treatment. oh no wait you can't do that because we already have and it's not working ergo <U+0096>
only if we confirm the diagnosis with an ana serum complement anti-dna iv pyelogramic kidney biopsy.
the symptoms <U+0096>
there's no lettuce.
actually i'm in the middle of <U+0096>
well how was i supposed to know?
that's kind of selfish don't you think?
ah that was before i tasted the pancakes. it's a compliment you should be flattered. [cuddy enters.]
mrs. who?
what would you do if you got herpes?
actually i'd know what you'd do. but i mean a normal guy.
he suspected that his wife had also been playing the pickle games he'd just keep it on the down-low. just wait till she got infected.
of course maybe it was the wife. maybe she was the one who <U+0096> [and with the music of epiphany house has figured something out about the patient of the week.]
where's mrs. nympho?
go search her.
if i'd meant that good chance i'd've said that.
his symptoms should be getting better the longer he's here instead they're getting worse.
because there's no reason to test for the other thirty. they don't get into the air or food they only get in you if someone puts them in you. the only way we're going to find out what she's been sprinkling on his corn flakes is to search her.
it's the only explanation. we've eliminated every other possibility.
has he responded to the latest lupus treatment?
he hasn't responded because it's not lupus! it's not allergies als arthritis or sarcoidosis. she's all that's left. do it!
hi i'm dr. house. mind if i take a look in your purse?
because i'm going to need to search it and you for whatever you're using to poison your husband.
then you won't mind if i search your things.
she agreed to let me search everywhere else but this she says no to. doesn't that tell you something?
cameron can do that.
the woman hasn't left the hospital since they arrived. whatever she's using she's obviously hiding somewhere.
it's the only explanation!
and you are protecting a complete stranger based on some childishly romantic notion that people are all so happily married they don't want to kill each other!
grow up.
there's no music room it's the conservatory.
no it isn't. if we don't find out what she's using start treatment immediately he'll be dead in a week.
you did your maid?
maybe she was doing her.
but you still feel responsible. even though nothing or no one was done it's still your fault.
you're supposed to be moving out not moving more people in.
maybe i should just move out and the two of you could <U+0096>
so let's say she's not poisoning him.
yeah and interferon.
true. but it's pretty much the only thing we can do for a viral infection. we didn't consider it because it doesn't <U+0096>
because he's got no immune system thanks to the immunosuppressant you prescribed him for lupus treatment.
because at that point he was a post-viral autoimmune reaction which again thanks to the immunosuppressants you prescribed for lupus treatment his immune system basically rolled out the red carpet for the dormant virus waking it up turning it into a present viral infection. give him interferon.
which is more likely a rapidly progressing acute onset lupus in a patient who's already on steroids or a team of doctors missing a post-viral reaction?
well then i'm wrong and you shouldn't. give him interferon!
up the dose.
apparently not enough.
increase the interferon.
you got a better idea other than lupus?
then up the dose.
sorry i was sick. and my team needed an emergency consult. your wife has herpes.
you haven't had an outbreak. yet. don't worry you will.
doesn't mean he got it first. you don't need to have an outbreak to spread the virus.
well you two obviously have a lot to talk about.
either of you two ever sit on a public toilet? well?
herpes can live for short periods of time outside the body.
some politically correct doctors will tell you that it's impossible to get infected by a toilet seat but they'll also tell you not to use the same bath towel to dry your crotch and your face during an outbreak. see the contradiction?
always?
what about you?
damn i was sure it was miyagi.
he could believe that you could get herpes from a toilet seat or he could be cheating on you and be happy to have an out.
sure but she'd only refuse to believe such a well presented lie if she were innocent. and since you both can't be innocent you ruddy jackass.
my pleasure.
she has a family history of arthritis doesn't she?
stop the interferon. do another heavy metal screen only this time test for gold.
and don't let her go to the bathroom!
oh!
what did you do to my closet?
it's not dr. wilson's closet! [and all the slashers go hee!] where's the wood box?
yes the wood box. it's made of wood and it's box-shaped. it's been in the back of this closet since the day i moved in.
well you may not have seen it but you've obviously moved it. the question is where?
look it was in this closet then you came now it's not in this closet!
wood! wood! it's a brown wood box it's got a metal handle it looks like a tackle or a toolbox <U+0096>
[pocketing the desired bottle] um thanks.
where is she?
i told you not to let her.
why not she likes that. [he tosses his cane to chase and works on opening the bottle while walking to the bathroom.]
sorry must be nervous. i got some bad news.
the damage to your husband's lungs is permanent. kidney damage is reversible and with the right therapy he should regain full neurological function. other than the fact that he's not going to be running any marathons he's going to be fine.
i'm not finished. when i was a kid my dad was stationed at a marine base in egypt. we were in the middle of nowhere and there was absolutely nothing for a kid to do except look for a mummy's tomb.
i didn't have a problem with you going to the bathroom. i just didn't want you to wash your hands. i never actually did find a mummy but i did learn a fair amount about the ancient egyptians. for example they discovered that stannous chloride is not only great for toughening ruby glass but if it's mixed with gold it turns bright purple. [he turns over maria's hand which is turning purple.] now either your fingers are actually worth their weight in gold or you've been sprinkling your husband's cereal with gold sodium thiomalate. it's an arthritis remedy it's rarely used here in the us but it's still popular in mexico. i've gotta give you props. i've never heard of anyone using gold before. it's almost poetic.
because you were trying to kill him i'd love to know the why behind that why. but you're not going to tell me are you?
i never said you didn't love him.
or maybe she just gets her kicks slowly sucking the life out of a guy and watching him suffer.
yeah he had it coming.
or maybe she just got tired of being married. didn't want to admit to family and friends that the marriage that everyone thought was perfect wasn't.
yeah cameron go back there. well it would be weird if we were all in the ladies' room. [house leaves in the elevator.]
thrilled to hear it.
it will.
he's becoming more attractive by the minute isn't he?
do i look pleased? [cameron walks over to him pulls a $20 from her waistband and hands it to him.]
i know. saw the caller id.
you answered?
i did. those are new. midnight snack. [he pops a vicodin]
yeah. actually it was after midnight. today is your day right?
no it's fine if you stay. [he opens the fridge and notices a bottle with the label property of james wilson which he promptly snags out and starts drinking from]
i said it's fine if you stay.
maybe i just want to make sure you do your fair share around here.
what's weird about it? the girl with the allergies.
what are you doing?
you knew that i was interested that gives you a valuable bargaining chip. could have had me doing dishes for a week.
heart transplant. the immune system's in the toilet mommy builds her little angel a john travolta quality bubble.
six months without putting out dr cuddy doesn't need to wear thong panties but it's not our call.
it's like an agatha christie mystery.
exercise allergy. love it. what sort of exercise could a strapping young man and a nubile teenage nymphet possibly be--
or the parents are lying about the room being clean.
hasn't let me down yet. re-check mom dad the girl the boy the room and the home.
boyfriend sneaks in to get his freak on the night before the anaphylaxis i don't buy that it's unrelated.
what's that mean?
oh snap! what did he do to protect her brillo-pad his privates?
oh good work assumptions are so much faster than actual questions.
[points with his cane] you the boyfriend? need to borrow you.
don't worry. i'll return him in roughly the same condition.
did you take anything to stay healthy? something stronger than an apple a day?
he's just tired. from being in a coma so long. what'd you take? don't worry he can keep a secret. [dan keeps staring at the coma patient; house grabs his face and turns him to look at house] antibiotics? penicillin? any of those names ring a bell?
this is the one downside of teenage sex. you're idiots. you almost killed your girlfriend. [dan looks confused] she's allergic to penicillin.
think lower and more fun.
totally dude! there's this administrator here whenever she gets sick she just gives me the prescription.
yeah 4 days later. by that time the penicillin was crusting up a sock in the bottom of your hamper.
no. great part of being a grown-up you never have to do anything.
what's the good news what's the bad news? [he's writing on the whiteboard]
is which?
why?
new puzzle piece always good news. what's the bad news?
[sighs] seems that way.
and get cured by a mommy-wielded epi pen? it's anaphylaxis. what else?
what do you mean 'we'? i did! guess i thought i did maybe i didn't. still it was all me.
it is tempting!
[snatches the marker back] sorry there's a reason they call it the whiteboard. it's not my rule. what ties both of these conditions together?
[taps his head] right up here buddy. [he turns on a light and slips on to the couch]
i didn't say it had to be with another person. [wilson suddenly flinches away extreme exasperation and a touch of horror to his expression] can you think of anything that would tie together anaphylaxis and heart failure?
now i need a lot of foreplay and then there's the cuddling afterwards. [wilson looks fed up and throws his briefcase on to the floor] any way that anaphylaxis isn't anaphylaxis even if it responds to epi?
have you seen the centre fold? there's no way those valves are real! any chance that the heart failure could be unrelated to--
lying's more fun.
please have an answer to this question: what's for dinner? [he opens a package of some snack while wilson walks into the kitchen]
you want one of these? i think i got a couple of blueberries... ohh... nope sorry [he eats it] just one. [wilson stands at the kitchen doorway and watches house while squeezing the bridge of his nose] well don't look all weepy. if you've got a problem with me deal with it! short my sheets or something.
so... anaphylaxis heart failure and paralysis. we couldn't put the first two together; i'm guessing we can't put all three together.
can we put any two of those together?
get an lp. and do pcrs for the viruses. and get an emg to check for guillain-barre. foreman's right we've got to find out why she's paralysed. [the ducklings stare] but not before staring at me dumbly for a few seconds. [ducklings make their exit]
nope.
gotta pee.
he must be lying. [he hobbles towards the toilet wilson follows] you wouldn't want to live with a liar.
yup! decided i wanted you to stay. told you that didn't i? [he continues talking to wilson while he pees]
yeah and you're happy happy happy.
[flushes the toilet hobbles to the sink to wash his hands] do you know where my pee went?
nope came out of me and went right into the toilet. now why would that be?
no it's because there was no clear plastic wrap over the toilet. the stuff's in the kitchen you have plenty of time. all that was missing was the will.
it could be.
so what? what did i do to you? i scammed you into doing the dishes made you sit on the steps. i didn't kill your puppy. i did not make you miserable.
no... just makes me smile.
[takes a beer and pops off the lid] right but not tonight.
you're not going anywhere. you're going to sit on my couch and depress us both because you just can't admit that it's over with your wife.
have you gotten a lawyer yet?
you even called one? as long as you're here it's just a fight. as soon as you get a place then it's a divorce. everything sucks. might as well find something to smile about. [wilson suddenly realises house's intentions all along yay!]
[in his pjs] we're all dying. how fast?
[hobbling across his kitchen with a pot filled with water] cuddy? what's she doing on this?
i don't blame them. i'll be right in. [he puts down the phone and puts the pot of water next to the couch then proceeds to lift one of wilson's hands and dips it into the pot of water]
this girl's tough. she gets what she wants. she's deprived of human contact; she gets herself a back door man. or in her case a side window boy. what else has she been deprived of?
the boyfriend brings the hot beef he also brings a side dish. botulism.
not if the heart problem was really a paralytic problem.
get me a rat.
what? we're not going to kill steve! only way to confirm this we inject a rat with her blood and wait for it to get all botulistic on your ass. in the meantime i'm going downstairs to browbeat the scared dying teenage girl until she... breaks down like a scared dying teenage girl.
[to wilson] you're up early.
yeah i know. fits perfectly. unless this is the patient with the anaphylaxis the heart failure and the paralysis. in which case you're wasting your time.
second? we've given you at least 8. ok well then here is 9. [he extubates melinda] botulism. listen to me have you eaten anything abnormal? any canned foods?
you sure? lying to your parents is usually the right thing to do but there is an impending death exception. [he takes the bag and puts it over her mouth then pumps it to help her breathe]
you're right she never lies. i was being rude. when your boyfriend snuck in on friday night [turns around to the parents] - surprise! - perhaps he got you some sexy little treats huh? some honey or some edible underwears massage oils come on anything.
yeah we know about the sex. [melinda's eyes widen in shock] turns out that danny's little danny is full of penicillin and that's what caused your anaphylactic shock.
[shocked] he said he was on penicillin.
if the antibiotics didn't cause the anaphylaxis...
everything's connected.
cameron said... [house and foreman share a look foreman takes over pumping the bag to help melinda breathe] when dan came to your house that night did he go through any tall grass?
your daughter had 2 visitors on friday night. one of them is still in the room. she has tick paralysis. dan tracked a tick on to his jeans which wouldn't be a problem but being a teenager dan couldn't keep his tick in his pants.
now i'm checking her.
this girl's allergies are not ordinary.
time course is perfect. bite itself sets off an allergic reaction venom takes 4 days to kick in heart's vulnerable hits that first. then a day later sets off the ascending paralysis.
they are until you find them! [he triumphantly holds up the comb...] oh no that's dandruff. okay well that wasn't nearly as dramatic as i'd hoped. it just means that next time it'll be even better.
that's the tick venom ascending.
she's just going to get worse. ticks produce more toxins the longer they feed. she's going to be dead in an hour even if you pump her heart full of jet fuel. unless you let me find the tick.
okay just need one final instruction when i find the tick on the autopsy do you want to know? i'm thinking not probably will make coping easier.
sorry a little crowded in here.
you're welcome to wait for the next one. [he takes back his cane and the doors start to close]
well as long as we're stuck here this might be a good time to look for that tick.
just be a minute honey.
inject her again.
temporary's fine we're not hanging wallpaper.
it wasn't penicillin. you still think the symptoms are unconnected?
[shouting] you wake up in the morning your paint's peeling your curtains are gone and the water's boiling. which problem do you deal with first?
none of them! the building's on fire! we treat her symptoms she dies we find the cause she lives. that tick is an iv drip of poison we unhook it she'll be fine.
let's get her gown up.
left foot's clean.
it's here. looks like a mole or a freckle something we missed. check the armpits.
perinuem.
maxilla.
eyebrows eardrums pubic hair.
we haven't found the tick yet.
hey is that the first time you had sex? [she faints] with all the other stuff going on down there she might not have realised... [he starts checking her vagina for the tick]
see? i told you it'd be even more dramatic. [he's holding a tick... and its legs are still wriggling]
push norepiniphrine get her heart back to normal. she'll be completely cured by tomorrow.
inamrinone was a stupid idea. unless you wanted me to get that girl in the elevator.
wouldn't respect you if you did.
does that mean you're leaving?
you'll call anything.
you know that relative to their size gorillas have smaller testicles than humans.
reason is primate teste size inversely corresponds to the fidelity of our females.
i'm talking about poker.
we're smaller and better than chimps bigger and worse than gorillas. for all our rationality our supposed trust and fealty to a higher power our ability to create a system of rules and laws; our baser drives are more powerful than any of that. we want to control our emotions but we can't. [wilson looks tolerably annoyed] if we're happy things don't annoy us. if on the other hand we're sitting on crappy hold cards little tiny things annoy us a whole lot more. [he puts the cigar back in his mouth and wags it up and down almost right in front of wilson's face. wilson seems to have a poker face on] i raise.
god that would be annoying.
they scan his head?
how's the heart rate?
[after a pause] i'm out. [he gets up to leave]
they don't match either. i'm going to take some air.
follow my finger with your eyes. [ian's eyes seem to follow the finger just fine]
given the number of mojitos she's knocking back at the party i'd say it's going to be at least 3 hours before she's even conscious.
[pops a vicodin] i don't drink. i want you to reach out and grab my cane. [ian's hand reaches out way to the right of the cane and grabs thin air. he gradually corrects himself and grabs onto the cane after a couple more tries]
your son's brain is losing control of his muscles.
she's wrong. [he gets up to leave]
i don't know.
[suddenly interrupts] hey! how's that anal fissure? did it heal yet or is it still draining? [looks at the woman] oh i'm sorry didn't realise you'd come back for seconds. i figured that after the girl on the stairwell you'd be done for the night.
no adam's apple small hands. no surprises this time. [he smiles and nods in amusement]
got a case.
yeah if i didn't screw with you you'd spend the whole night thinking you might get laid which means you'd be useless. better to extinguish all hope. get foreman and cameron and meet me upstairs stat.
two cases same symptoms. what do 6-yr-olds and 70-yr-olds have in common?
i already checked for that.
no no no.
no! the nearly dead and the newly bred have more in common with each other than with people in the middle. what's weird is the kind of circle of life thing.
he will.
they were nowhere near each other in any of the four dimensions.
yep.
she assigned it to me.
she wouldn't have assigned it to me if she didn't would she?
what were we talking about?
while you were all wearing your 'frankie says relax' t-shirts i was treating a 73-yr-old woman who went through this progression of symptoms the last of which was... [he leans down and writes death at the bottom of all her symptoms] in case any of you missed that class in med school that one's untreatable. kid's got the first two. took esther an hour and 20 mins to go from two to three. and less than a day to make it all the way to the rear exit.
great. do a colonoscopy.
if you happen to find any purple papules do me a favour and grab a slice. i want to check for erdheim-chester.
if esther's family had let me to an autopsy there'd be 201.
[walks in] so?
you mean papules. come on cameron who's right? [she's looking into the microscope]
let me see. [he checks] if it's not erdheim-chester...
[taking off his bowtie] do a kidney biopsy. esther's shut down in exactly-- [he checks his watch]
geez. you get testy when you don't get any fuzz. come on.
urine.
still think it's not the same case?
so what can cause bloody diarrhea ataxia and kidney failure?
forget it. that battle's over. his rising creatinine is his kidney's way of saying go on without me. what explains everything?
clear concise and completely plausible. and exactly what i did last time didn't work. what else?
but not the purple papules.
42.
it's my lucky number.
she never showed any signs of... if he has lymphoma this far advanced we should be able to see it in his blood and brain. chase run a blood smear and immuno-chemistries. foreman get an mri.
no you won't.
she'll come right up here and do one of two things - if she agrees with me i don't need her if she disagrees i don't want her.
subordinates can disagree with me all they want it's healthy. people who can shut me down on the other hand... forget cuddy i'll have wilson keep her busy.
[puts his phone on speakerphone] keep your answers short and discrete. is cuddy still playing?
brilliant. she'll never suspect that normandy is her target.
how's she doing?
love to chat but got a game to play. how's she doing?
and what have you got?
[while on the phone performs a trick to make a chip disappear what a magician he is] two hearts. you got the flush?
she drinking her seltzer?
means she's bluffing. push her all in. [wilson does so]
oh dear sounds like i messed up. you're going to be stuck with her for a while. talk to you soon. [puts down the phone]
pituitary?
[walks to the board and starts writing chase enters] pretty much confirms the lymphoma. should have started esther on prednisone.
[hopes shot down again he takes his cane and wanders out of the room with the ducklings in tow]
it's a train. we don't know what kind of train--
i'm thirsty.
[yanks his cane back and starts whacking the lock again until it does open and the gate rolls up out of the way] it's not now. we've got one advantage. we know where the tracks are going.
the fact that we know is an advantage. [he turns on the coffee machine and gets himself a cup] which means we can get ahead of it. next station is the liver. we've got about 90 minutes before it gets there. maybe we can cut down a tree across the line just outside of town.
no treatment will tell us more faster.
[angrily knocks back some stuff on the counter with a crash] treat him for everything! give him acetylcysteine and interferon and silymarine and whatever else you can think of to protect the liver.
oh just catching up on some tv. how're you doing?
i heard. what've you got?
you're paired.
nines?
anything lower you wouldn't sound so excited. jacks are higher your voice sounds like debbie from accounting is sitting in your lap. ask cuddy if she can beat a pair of threes.
yes it would.
what did she do?
enough with the codes she obviously knows it's me.
did she stop?
go all in.
just do it.
shut up! look last time i wanted the game to go on. i still do. means that this time you get to win.
good.
even better.
it's new. new is good. because old ended in death.
he's back on esther's path. we managed to make the train skip a few stations which means that instead of 12 hours he's probably got less than two. which begs the question why. what did we do?
mess with them not shut them down in 20 minutes.
anybody know where we can find an oncologist at this hour?
what effects would interferon have on leukemia?
four-year fellowship to learn that.
you hear that? she wants me off the phone means she's vulnerable. go all in.
go all in.
either you go all in or i tell everybody in the building that you wear toenail polish.
what happened?
fine keep playing but i need you to recommend a good oncologist because if i don't get one up here in the next few minutes i got a dead 6-yr-old. [wilson puts down the phone]
games have a higher success rate.
no time.
what would move this fast?
can anyone think of a reason why kawasaki's can't affect the elderly? other than it doesn't. [no reply] nice.
elevated. 98.
is that like a dare or something?
fine. we'll look for kawasaki where he lives ian's coronary arteries.
it was a book?
12.
only if you're on a wooden ship and your obsession is a whale. i think i'm in the clear.
you do realise that the point of metaphors is to scare people from doing things by telling them that something much scarier is going to happen than what will really happen? god i wish i had a metaphor to explain that better. go back to the game. don't worry i'm not going to get eaten by witches. [he gets into the elevator and leaves wilson standing alone]
ian's younger. he can take more of a pounding. esther died before the disease reached her heart. the disease made a mass and made it fast.
kid can't take any more theories. only thing we know is that whatever that mass is that's what he's got. we need a piece of it. i'm doing a biopsy.
no let them watch i do my best work on the big stage. passing through the superior vena cava.
these procedures would be so much simpler if you could do them on healthy people. and out again. [as he's pulling the biopsy needle out alarms start beeping] v fib!
[takes off ian's robe] come on paddles! come on.
clear! [he shocks ian no effect]
and again. [shocks ian chase checks for a pulse]
again. [shock check for pulse]
you got a clock on this?
clear. [shock check for pulse]
he's back. [he starts to finish taking out the biopsy needle which is still stuck where it was before ian went into cardiac arrest]
doing what we came here to do.
i know i was right here. give me a vacutainer.
tell the parents. where the hell is that vacutainer? [a nurse hands him one]
so what's he got?
good chance. i was talking about before that.
things i can't do anything about i try not to.
whatever this is is very unlikely. come on more ideas let's go people.
i don't know it sure fits nice enough.
how's it going? you win?
i told them you'd signed off. the parents are mad because their kid is dying that's understandable. but if he doesn't die they won't be mad anymore.
i had to do it to save him.
he's not dead yet.
so anything else or is it just these seven?
no she's not. you know she's not.
i'm surprised you didn't.
we don't need to go near him we have his tumor. cuddy may be right that we screwed up the protocol she may be right about my screwed up obsession but i'm right about the medicine. [he takes the tumor slice out of the fridge in a container and puts it in front of cameron] how many tests can we do with that? [cameron sighs] look we cure the kid we solve everybody's problems. how many?
how many okay pieces?
[turns around to look back at the whiteboard] three tests seven choices. okay what's first?
yeah so likely that cuddy's going to think of that all on her own. she's got the kid's whole body to play with. let her do that test. what's next?
well there are more documented cases of histio amongst older people than tuberous sclerosis let's start with that. [he circles it on the board ducklings exit]
mr foreman you agree with both of them? thanks for playing.
then we don't have to think as hard. taking the pressure off the choice makes us less likely to think critically.
tuberous sclerosis it is.
it's more likely the test for it on the other hand is less reliable.
mighty casey is down to his last strike.
thanks a lot didn't read that this weekend. [pops a vicodin]
why?
give me a minute.
you want me out of here?
no.
we can talk about it tomorrow.
pocket aces.
[smiles indulgently then suddenly realises something] the aces were hiding all along.
test him for erdheim-chester disease.
disease lied.
fine it didn't lie it slow played us. we biopsied the colon it hadn't reached the gi tract yet. it's there now. it's in his liver his lungs--
run the test. [the ducklings look disappointed but do it anyway]
wait let me think about that. don't pressure me. just run the damn test.
that's a good start.
[walks away and stares at the wall] take your time and say it loud.
start the treatment. [ducklings exit]
yeah.
what i do is not just based on the flip of a card.
it fit.
no not just as easily.
[the piano music starts up again in the background house smokes his cigar] you know relative to it's size the barnacle has the largest penis of any animal. [said with a poker face]
[jumps startled from sleep takes the medical journal off his face.]
complicated case. i'm a night owl - wilson's an early bird. we're different species.
who'll clean the droppings from mine? [rolls over turning his back to her]
i'm guessing she's... what's the medical term? upset. these 25-year-old females are usually completely rational. they're rocks. really. [glances at the file momentarily] eh... my theory seems to be supported by the fact that she swallowed a bottle of sleeping pills. get her a shrink. and i need some shut-eye.
she's lying. without rem sleep your neurons stop regenerating - the brains shut down lobe by lobe. she'd be insane after five days - dead by ten.
clever alibi.
[seems intrigued takes the file from cuddy]
[sits up properly and reads the file]
got a case. it can wait you two finish. [to chase] five bucks says someone loses an eye.
fine. you're only putting off the inevitable. twenty five year old female hasn't slept for ten days.
i'm a very slow reader. no fever no white count means no infection.
no delusions.
i signed it i didn't read it. [pauses] aside from the sleeping pills tox-screen was clean. no cocaine meth amphetamines or diet pills.
ahh.. about three weeks ago. let's go back to the beginning.
genesis. god said let there be light.
i'm sensing another article.
[takes some vicodin out the pill bottle he had in his pocket and places it inside of a folded napkin]
but she sleeps.
[begins loudly crushing the vicodin folded inside of the napkin with the back handle of his cane] and she doesn't know she sleeps.
[unfolds the napkin and sprinkles the crushed vicodin over his food] so.. she sleeps she just can't stay asleep.
you know what keeps me awake at night? monsters in the closet.
well it's certainly not showing up on the scans. [pauses] where's cameron?
oh this is going to work out great.
[wipes his hands off on the napkin] come on.
if you two guys can't play nice together i'm taking away your toys. i don't care whose fault this is.
[interrupts her] i especially don't care if it's my fault. [pauses] whatever this woman has it's not showing up on our tests which means she's sick... just not sick enough for us to see it.
yes. i want to stress her body. specifically her brain. keep her awake.
so is cutting people with knives. but you can totally get away with that if you have a doctor coat on.
the more symptoms we can force out of her the more tests we can do the more tests we do the more information we get the quicker we make a diagnosis. [pauses] see how much more fun it is when you guys get along? [points to cameron and foreman] you two take the first four hours.
what all of you? [moves his feet off the table and sits in his chair properly] so the monster is peeking out from under the bed. which either means she has a clotting disorder or she has a tumor in her colon.
who's keeping her awake now?
[stern] who is with her?
probably singing her lullabies. [pops open his vicodin bottle] i want her awake.
why? just because of the pain? [places the pill in his mouth] if you find a tumor in her colon you can knock her out. if you don't - she stays awake.
when two people fight this much - you know what it means.
oh get a room.
just pretend i'm not here. i'll be reading.
no. but i now have a much greater respect for whichever basketball player you dated in college.
what if the poison ivy wasn't poison ivy. she got the rash that was diagnosed as poison ivy around the same time the insomnia started. rash plus nosebleed plus sleep disturbance equals wegener's granulomatosis. start corticosteroid treatment.
much lower dosage. get her back on the juice triple the dose. get a cianga and an upper airway biopsy to confirm the wegener's.
[pulls up a chair with his cane] she said 'super depressed'?
[sighs] she wants birth control pills for her pms.
judging by the redness around your mom's nostrils and the tissue she's got conveniently stashed in her wristband i'd say her problem is more likely a uri than a pms.
upper respiratory infection. a cold.
i also think she's got a problem with sac.
[winks at her] thanks for playing. stupid american child. if you want the pill all you have to do is walk into any health clinic in jersey alone and ask for it.
what exactly was your plan? [clicks his pen and begins writing a prescription] you were going to exchange the birth control pills for some over the counter decongestants in the hopes that your mom's cold lasts another six years?
[pulls off the prescription paper and hands it over]
no. that's for your ovaries. i assume you haven't had a stroke have you ever had a blood clot?
super. in three months when you need a refill take a bus to a free clinic. don't wait around hoping for mom to get another sniffle. [stands upright once more then leans closer to the mandarin mother] not the sharpest chopstick in the drawer is she?
[shuts the exam room door] nice idea but no. this was just good old-fashioned laziness. i gotta hand it to foreman though he knew that you were a suck up and i don't give a crap. he successfully exploited us both.
then i'd have foreman pissed at me. and as annoying as you can be at least i know you're not going to pop a cap in my ass. witty huh?
you on the other hand continue to be flabbergasted every time someone actually acts like a human being. foreman did what he did because it worked out best that way for him. that's what everyone does.
was she sitting up or lying down?
then it wasn't rem.
did you start her on the steroids?
then she wasn't sleeping.
because we haven't done anything yet. she may be able to sleep with her eyes open but unless you also discover that she's got two extra teats in the hooves of her feet there's no way she'd be able to retain enough muscle tensity during rem sleep to sit upright. it's a movement disorder. which rules out wegener's. where's foreman?
good.
did she have a dog?
when?
when did she get rid of the dog?
well then it's not allergies. she's just leaving her girlfriend.
if her birthday was a month ago she would still be on steroids for the poison ivy. and those meds would have suppressed any reaction she might have had to the dog which means she lied about being allergic. the dog's a commitment. you pretend to be allergic because you don't want to tell your girlfriend that you're not planning on being around that long. so i think we can move onto options other than allergies.
she is not allergic.
do a scratch test.
what about her mental state?
it just means i was right doesn't mean she's suicidal.
sleeping pills. god knows why she'd want them. what else can cause sleep disorder and internal bleeding?
what are you doing here? who's keeping her awake?
she's not getting a new liver unless we can figure out what's wrong with her.
so your advice is we just give up?
the girlfriend donated blood right?
that means they're the same type.
does seem tacky doesn't it.
i'm doctor house. i'm in charge of your case.
you're in acute liver failure. we can continue the transfusions and the lactulose. but it's only a stopgap. there's really nothing we can do to stop the toxins from building up in your bloodstream. which means that in a few hours you will lapse into a coma. and you won't wake up. i'm sorry.
well even with the right diagnosis any treatment is going to take longer than the time she has left.
wouldn't work without a diagnosis. whatever killed the first liver will do the same to the second.
well it may give us an extra day or two but no procurement agency is going to let a liver go to a patient with an undiagnosed pre-existing---
it is medically possible for us to take a part of your---
[to hannah] you're very lucky to have such a devoted partner.
i just bought us 36 hours. differential diagnosis - which monster eats your liver screws up your sleep and causes bleeding?
didn't come up so i guess no.
and if you didn't have a pathological need to create a close personal relationship with every dying person you meet we would be blissfully ignorant of any ethical dilemmas and might actually be able to concentrate on the differential.
no we don't. continue.
it could explain the bleeding. maybe the liver failure.
it's not medical information.
the ama.
the rings don't have to be there if there's neurological symptoms.
look let's say you're right. we tell she changes her mind our patient dies. how is that moral? [pauses] what else?
right. skiers never party.
it's only moral to save a person if they love you? that's kind of a selfish way of looking at life. i like wilson's disease like cancer love mushrooms.
so do those tests and my tests at the same time. use the pet to look for cancer and wilson's while you endoscope her bile ducts and scrape her stomach for mushroom spores. one of you ct her liver while the other two check protein ca125 and ca19.5. oh yeah if anyone says anything to max they're fired.
we have to not. because she's not our patient.
need a little help.
27 year old female wants to donate half her liver to her dying girlfriend.
liver failure.
the transplant buys me time.
it was her idea.
the donor and the donee sort of have opposing interests right? can't really advise them both.
nothing medically relevant.
if i can't tell her i can't really tell you can i? and if you're advising her.
my patient's confidential file.
you can either satisfy your curiousity or remain ignorant do nothing ethically wrong and my patient doesn't die in three hours.
seen it digested it watched it blow up my entire department.
i didn't read either.
better than foreman's?
the same old party lines.
ah shoulda woulda coulda.
no i'm saying that i don't care what they do as long as my life isn't interrupted by pointless conversations like this one.
they shouldn't.
i could be the kindest gentlest boss in the world and foreman still would have done what he did because that's who he is. we can only hope that cameron has learned something.
our children are the future.
how's our patient?
i don't care about the prep what about the diagnostic tests?
where's cameron?
surgery is supposed to start in about 15 minutes.
hannah and max will be in the same room.
both awake. with cameron.
good lord.
she hasn't slept in eleven days. are you trying to torture her?
ding ding let's go.
i told you---
this is exactly why you got screwed with foreman. you're looking for people to do the right thing.
oh she could have the best pre-frontal cortex in the history of mankind but given the choice of life versus death those bad bad people are going to choose life.
yeah. i want to save her. i'm morally bankrupt.
oh! i am so relieved you two are here. without you looking at me they're playing foosball down there.
your patient is on the other side. now get yourself upstairs and figure out what hannah has or max has risked her life for nothing.
now where were we before we were so rudely interrupted by the liver transplant?
and the initial tests were negative for cancer.
any of them.
great battles kick up a lot of dirt. obscure the battlefields so the generals can't see what's going on.
sound the retreat.
[opens the door and moves inside.]
what?
[promptly yanks his hand away. looks intrigued then places it back where it was.] wh... how could you get them mixed up? they come in a little wheel they don't look anything like decongestants.
no you gave her the wrong pills.
i can count to ten and ask to go to the bathroom and ??????????[gongxi ni kuai dang zumu le. congratulations you're going to be a grandmother.]
okay i'm going to leave you two alone now. i'm sure you've got a lot to talk about.
is that supposed to surprise me?
normal is not normal. she's been on steroids transplant team gave her a cocktail of immuno-suppressants she hasn't slept in over a week. her white count should be in the tank.
yeah you might want to add some chicken soup. it's just as useless but it's got chicken. we need to know exactly what kind of infection we're dealing with what infection causes sleep disturbance bleeding movement disorder organ failure and abnormally normal white count.
without conjunctivitis and elevated creatinine?
you sure she hasn't been out of the country?
you talked to the dog?
[scoffs] has the dog been traveling?
where?
blue barrel is a kind of cactus. do you see many cacti in jersey?
wanna see a magic trick? [moves his hand in and pinches hannah's nose pretending to steal her nose. he then shakes out his hand feigning surprise as her 'nose' disappears] oh no where'd it go where'd it go? [raises hannah's left arm up] is it here? [searches it momentarily then places it down again] how about here? [raises her right arm and pulls up her sleeve revealing a large pustule wound] there it is. oh it doesn't look anything like a nose.
give that to the lab and call the cdc.
that we have a patient with the plague.
[nods] looks that way.
where there's dogs there's fleas. if they hail from the southwest then those fleas can't tell the difference between prairie dogs and puppy dogs. a small percentage of plague cases present with sleep disturbance. imagine an idyllic river of bacteria. okay it's not idyllic for her but it serves my purposes. the steroids and the immuno-suppressants acted like a big hunk of dam across the river. physics 101 put a dam up in front of a raging river the river rises. by stopping the immuno-suppressants we blew up the dam and a hundred foot wall of bacteria flooded her lymph nodes.
after you restart the immuno-suppressants then fill her up to the eyeballs with streptomycin sulfate gentamycin and tetracycline. use a garden hose if you've got one. get yourselves some prophylactic treatments as well.
don't worry it's treatable. being a bitch though nothing we can do about that.
well if you wanted it you shouldn't have left it behind when you moved out.
i'll call you as soon as i'm done with it. that's if you ever get a phone installed.
won't be home thursday.
i guess maybe i could bring in it tomorrow. after all how many times can you hit pause at the part where lindsay lohan wins the spelling bee? what is it about girls who can spell?
what is it about girls who can count?
gotta go building full of sick people. [he walks into the elevator and peeps out.] if i hurry maybe i can avoid them.
god talks to him?
no you talk to god you're religious god talks to you you're psychotic.
god ever talked to you when you were in the seminary?
god's loss our gain. he's either psychotic or a scam artist.
well yeah with the burning bush and all it's quite the show.
god knows you stole cameron's article?
yeah. i can tell that from the berlin wall of body language between you. [they are standing about a meter apart.] i'm shocked that he picked up on it. low sodium - check for addison's?
cirrhosis?
[he sighs.] we should monitor his saline intake to correct the low sodium. no more than one meq [beta comment: meq = milliequivalent.] per litre per hour. let's push the patient history to see if there's any history of drugs or other delusions. i'll take care of it. [he starts to walk out.]
god talks to him. it'd be arrogant of me to assume that i'm better than god.
so you're a faith healer. or is that a pejorative? do you prefer something like divine health management? [he closes the door and boyd looks confused.] i thought god might have mentioned that i was coming.
oh! that's a nice one didn't even go with i see an 'h' and a medical coat.
ah don't believe them. i keep a sock in my pants. faith - that's another word for ignorance isn't it? never understood how people could be so proud of believing in something with no proof at all. like that's an achievement.
trust has to be earned; can't trust someone hiding in a closet.
you seem lucid there's no confusion no lethargy. what drugs have you been taking?
so aspirin and hospitals are ok. that's an interesting attitude for someone who's kept any number of people from getting medical help.
that bottle's been opened before. you refilled it at the water cooler.
how often do you do that?
i think water might have gotten in.
is she dying?
[house leans to look at her around wilson.] before the end of this consult?
patient 15-yr-old faith healer hotline to god.
he is not a saint. he figures out what's going on in people's lives by watching listening deducing--
then he passes on advice from god so he can watch them jump it's a power trip.
i fear for the human race. a teenager claims to be the voice of god and people with advanced degrees are listening.
massive cramps low sodium turns out he's been drinking water non-stop god told him to purify his body.
which would cause the cramping yeah i get it.
um hmm... he's all better. you know i get it if people were just looking for a way to fill the holes. but they want the holes; they wanna live in the holes. and they go nuts when someone else pours dirt in their holes. climb out of your holes people!
isn't it interesting that religious behavior is so close to being crazy we can't tell them apart?
hmm... how to settle this? we could ask our patient to ask god or we could mri his brain. which way do you want to go? 'cos i'm open to all of them.
his leash broke.
and now she's not freaked and angry and you are.
sudden drop in pain could create euphoria. you should let her have her vacation. [he takes a vicodin.]
don't you guys have anything to do? [ducklings leave.]
your mri results aren't done yet; go back to your room. no singing.
your trick about the spat between doctor cameron and doctor foreman apparently impressed someone.
you like messing with people. that's why you're here now. now maybe you think that your batteries are powered by god maybe you don't. either way you enjoy what you do.
hmm... but you make sure you're in the next state by the time the endorphins wear off and the arthritis comes back.
oh you do extensive follow-up studies?
that's not fair. we were having fun; it's hard to keep sniping rationally when you throw a bomb like that in there. [he walks back into his office boyd follows.]
forgive my enemies never date a taurus when mercury's in retrograde yeah i learnt that one myself the hard way.
see that is exactly the kind of brilliance that sounds deep but you could say it about any person who doesn't pine for the social approval of everyone he meets which you were cleverly able to deduce about me by not being a moron. next time tell god to be more specific.
don't talk to my patient.
you get all huffy when my patient stumbles into yours in the hallway but you got no qualms about chatting my guy up.
god knows about my poker game.
either that or i start going to church every sunday. that would mess with my bowling league.
tuberous sclerosis.
all of them?
tell our patient congratulations. soon his chats with god will be a thing of the past. [he takes up the whiteboard marker and gives himself another point on the board.] tie goes to the mortal.
i need you to talk to my patient. [he takes the yoghurt wilson was going to buy from his hand.] i'll get this one.
moses is refusing surgery. you have a gift people thank you for telling them they're going to die.
you would let this kid die just to get into a stupid game?
think god has a big mouth.
you think god needs a telephone in your head to talk to you? isn't he everywhere? it's not a long-distance call.
how come everyone else needs faith but you just get the guy screaming his existence in your ear? [wilson turns around to give him a look.] your turn.
how sweet. you abdicate your authority; avoid those tricky parental issues like whether to let him drive at 16 just let him die at 15.
you have a gift for manipulation.
that's what i'm saying. you read that kid; you manipulated the hell out of him. [wilson looks at house expectantly.] bring pretzels.
i know that knock. use your key i'm not getting up.
game's not 'til tomorrow night. those aren't pretzels.
yeah...?
[he stops playing and looks at the scan.] don't tell my patient.
i want all the records on miracle woman. every test every treatment she's ever had every question she's ever answered in this hospital. anything sent for previous doctors. go back to neo-natal if you have to- [he spots grace with boyd in his room. chase looks like he's trying to sneak away.] which part of keep them away from each other confused you?
now we have obligingly offered medical proof that his delusions are true.
i'm on it. [cuddy walks off.] tell jesus that we need another 24 hours to normalize the sodium levels.
actually tell joseph. [he spots the dad walking to the room.] jesus will know you're lying. and i want you and foreman and cameron to go over every line of every file on that woman.
the only way to save him is to prove that she is still dying.
kings on nines. [the other players sigh he collects his chips. wilson walks in the door with a bag of pretzels.] wilson! this is err... [he points to each one.] dry cleaner tax accountant guy from the bus stop. this is wilson.
seniority.
find anything?
all of them.
everybody's a whiner. be a do-er not a me-tooer. [to the poker game.] raise.
[the other guys look speculative house looks wary.] keep looking. [he disconnects and contemplates his position.] fold.
this call had better be worth my time.
that's why you're there.
unless you think he's radioactive...
give me a minute [he puts the phone on the table to concentrate on the game and tosses some chips into the centre.]
9 bucks for a straight flush. [he gives wilson a look and picks the phone up.] he's not coming home. relax. [disconnect.] there's nothing in this universe that can't be explained... eventually. take this game. only 2 people knew that you wanted in on it. i didn't tell him.
why would you? no the only person he's been getting all intimate and conversational with is your cancer chick. how would she know? [wilson begins to look nervous.] the subject of my poker game isn't likely to come up in the course of a patient interview. no that's the kind of thing you mention to someone you're used to sharing the details of your day with.
your rabbi guidance counselor parent... she's not your mom is she?
you've been having sex...
... with our miracle woman.
most people in your situation just have their careers to worry about. you've got that and divine retribution.
tell me how it happened i'll tell them whatever you want.
so you offered?
stay and make sure she's ok.
and never leave. you told me you got an apartment but you moved in with her. you lied to me.
his name is not wilson and he's screwed up worse than i am.
half the doctors who specialize in oncology turn into burnt-out cases but you - you eat neediness.
you're a functional vampire. sure you're heroic useful to society but only because it feeds you.
there's nothing worth stealing so don't even look.
you don't just have a fetish for needy people you marry them!
you mean it and then time passes and suddenly they're not so needy anymore. your fault. you've been there for them too much. they're getting healthy independent and that's just ugly. god you must be pissed at god right now for making her all happy.
because you're being stupid. [wilson laughs.] you know what you're risking by sleeping with a patient!
yeah you got me nailed.
he knows where i am.
[he answers.] yeah. [a pause.] i'll be right there. [he puts down the phone.] jesus is spiking a fever. he's delusional.
i know.
pick any random guy off the street bring him in here examine him exhaustively and you'll find at least 3 things wrong with him. this kid has tuberous sclerosis - a mild case.
we assumed that the tumors were growing 'cos he's getting sicker but he could have grown old and died and never known about them if he hadn't come here. we were looking for something; it's more or less in the right part of the brain. it's like we found someone standing over a dead body holding a gun. we arrested them didn't look any further. well sometimes people really do just stumble into a murder scene.
fevers don't come from a long-term underlying condition. he's a garden variety religious nut who happens to have an infection. it's lumbar puncture time.
wilson need you to do your thing.
i have faith.
which antibiotics? we don't know what infection he's got.
forget it; our best hope is your silver tongue.
were you not paying attention when i was doing my murder scene metaphor?
it doesn't cause fever.
[he suddenly stops.] or a bug he gave here. he gave it to your patient. that's why her tumor shrank; the virus went after the cancer first.
for 200 years there've been reports of wild viruses that target tumors. early 1900's an italian medical journal wrote up a woman with cervical cancer who was injected with a weak strain of rabies i've no idea why they did that but her tumor shrank.
one of the virus types most prone to go after cancer cells is herpes.
they can't argue with the mark of cain.
[walking in.] ok let's start with the shirt. [wilson walks in behind him.]
i'm on a mission from god. if you won't let me undress you then strip.
that woman you helped? you gave her a virus.
gift is jewelry socks. what you have is herpes encephalitis. the only way you could have transmitted it is by scratching one of your own sores and touching another person.
either that or cold sores. your kid got it from the sex.
herpes hides. you have an outbreak; it goes away comes back goes away. [he pushes boyd back down once again.] strip! maybe you didn't have a sore when you came in but you've got one now.
do you ever wonder why a perfect child of god should feel so desperate to purify his body that he needed to scarf down a dozen gallons of water a day?
relax. a few hail mary's a little acyclovir he'll be picking up angels again in no time.
come in.
you still hearing voices?
you're not going to give me my final point? [he starts taking off the outer shirt over his white t-shirt.]
who else?
you don't think god should get a point knocked off?
because of a virus! [he puts on his black leather jacket.]
she won the lottery.
yeah the hand of god reached into this kid's pants made him have sex so he could scratch the rash stick his fingers into some woman's face give her a few extra months. come on he's just another liar and manipulator.
so... how's your girlfriend?
she didn't crash.
she still believes.
you're moving out? [they exit the hospital.]
you moving back in with me?
but we're ok?
cop with a sense of humor. differential diagnosis. [tosses the files out to the team] guy's in the er bleeding on everybody.
tox screen was clean. he did however get hit by a bullet. just mentioning.
no somebody threw it at him.
his name's baby shoes how bad can he be? [he motions to cameron and she gives him an x-ray and ct scan film that he puts up on the lighted board he just drug in.] the fragments are in the wrong part of the brain to cause euphoria. so let's expand the search factor in the cough and the cloudy lungs.
yeah all cause those bastards didn't ratify kyoto. or he got co indoors and then moved outdoors before he'd inhaled enough to make him drop dead. test his arterial blood gas. if his carboxyhemoglobin levels are higher then 15% stick him in a hyperbaric chamber. [points to foreman] you go check the cop car for gas leaks.
well maybe she is but just doesn't have as good a sense of humor. also check his personal car his work home i'll check the precinct.
[bangs a vent with his cane] sounds ok.
looks great.
your system's fine. if you had a carbon monoxide leak half the force would be sick.
i was wondering if you could do me a favor.
yeah. [to the female cop] i've uh i've got a disability. [hands the cop lots of tickets]
a lot of emergencies. [she stares at him.] he's feeling better now but you never know.
where does your partner sit?
nope waste of time.
i've heard rumors since junior high.
legionnaires' disease. it's a good thing joe got shot; the whole precinct would have gotten wiped out. anarchy on the streets-
and only 2 seconds to recognize that the symptoms fit while staring at the rancid unchanged water of an ac unit.
pot doesn't explain the fact that he's gotten worse since he was admitted. why don't we agree to disagree. actually why don't we agree that you'll disagree with me while treating him for legionnaires'? it's not as pithy but[he walks off]
no chance this is a practical joke?
bullet fragments just happened to hit the same spot in both lobes? stroke could cause anton's blindness and euphoria. officer krupke is clotting in his brain. start heparin to thin the blood. find the clot and yank it out.
great! chase stick your fingers in there and grope around until you find it. oh wait! when you turn him into a vegetable then there's gonna be frivolous lawsuits. you know what would be better? contrast mri. do we have one of those?
well let's flip a coin. heads mri tails he dies.
it's just so cool that you know that!
waste of time. the skull creates too much artifact. we'll never get a decent view.
and a waste of time.
oh godit's a coup! fine go do your angio. when you're done wasting your time come meet me down in the morgue.
what did the angio tell us?
i called my mom. she didn't pick up. what did the angio tell us?
he's a neurologist. unless you think the patient's optic nerve is in his spleen.
[very sarcastic] foreman policemen are our friends. if you and i ever get separated shopping
see! he was just busting the guy's chops. foreman is essential to solving this case. medically what did the angio tell us?
saying there appears to be clotting is like saying there's a traffic jam up ahead. is it a ten-car pileup? or just a really slow bus in the center lane and if it is a bus is it a thrombotic bus or an embolic bus? think i pushed that metaphor too far. [while he is talking he is pulling a corpse out of one freezer. he then walks over to the tray on the side.]
oh so you're saying it was just a waste of time?
you don't know that an mri will kill him!
little tiny pieces trapped in his head. they're not going anywhere! [house puts in ear plugs]
surgeons say inoperable and the patient's on blood thinners. other than that perfect plan. [pulls a gun out of a plastic bag]
much! [shoots the corpse in the head and then looks at the teamcameron is trying to cover her ears chase looks like he's going to run away screaming and foreman is grinning] bullet's identical to the one baby shoes popped joe with. let's see how magnetic it is.
i shot him! he's dead! [sees that foreman is still grinning and looks at him funny]
only used a half-load of gunpowder.
how unprofessional was foreman?
berated or humiliated?
one implies he took pleasure in it. i want to know if it was repressed black anger or just giddiness.
i think that an appropriate response to watching your boss shoot a corpse is not to grin foolishly.
[using the intercom] dr. foreman dr. chase requests your assistance! [he sees chase struggling with the body in the background]
well if i'd shot a live person there's a lot more paperwork.
the man donated his body to science! yes it's a tragedy! if i hadn't shot him his body could have spent the next year letting first year med students use the carpool lane.
you're mad because i put a bullet in his head. at the worst all i'm doing now is taking it out.
my bad.
well it doesn't matter; we obviously can't use it on this patient.
that helps explain how they can afford all the fancy equipment. i'm sure not pulling my weight.
echo his heart.
clots are in his brain. the source of the clots may not be. do a complete transthoracic echocardiogram. maybe we get lucky. maybe the clots are coming from his heart.
did you hear the one about the guy who bled into his brain and had to have a hole drilled into his skull to relieve the pressure? hilarious!
but not funny.
if you're not sick it's not contagious and you've got nothing to worry about. if you are sick the two of you are staying in here until we find out why. so you might want to make friends with the pig. [foreman laughs] good news is i can finally get my mri.
not the portable one chuckles. [foreman stops laughing] chase and cameron are bringing it to scan your non-bullet riddled head.
to the office got work to do. eat your meals take your temperature every half hour and any meds i command you to take.
no! you get your own thermometer!
check your blood anyone with an elevated sed rate gets to be foreman's new roomie.
he's a patient.
he's not objective.
right. you're not even friends with him why would you care? [looks at the mri which chase has put on the light box] there's an area of increased t-2 attenuation is the cingulate cortex.
cingulate cortex control emotions. this mushy spot explains the euphoria. question is what's causing the mush?
this is why he shouldn't be here. you wouldn't call him a jerk if he was here. if you think he screwed up at that apartment you'd keep it to yourself.
well we'll never know; as long as he's not here he's just like any other patient. which means we can dump on him all we want. what's eating the selfish jerk's brain?
test foreman's blood. given that he's the only one that got it person to person transmission is less likely then some sort of deadly toxin that foreman picked up at the guy's home. who wants to go next?
whoa! you're ready to sacrifice yourself for a guy that doesn't consider you a friend?
hey! you don't have to go anywhere. joe's apartment is right downstairs in the lab. foreman brought back samples of everything.
don't worry. you made the right call. foreman stumbled into whatever it is without knowing and he's way smarter than you are.
what about the blood?
no one goes back to that place til we know what we are looking for. get some of that cop tape stick it over the doors and the windows.
yeah i was never that great a math but next to nothing is higher than nothing right?
we should get a sample directly from joe's brain
well i don't think that this is the time to be pointing fingers. [he pauses] i didn't give foreman any.
come on really who doesn't?
without a fever not a chance.
he also had legionella.
this is a waste of time. [he begins to walk to leave the room]
if i'm gonna be arguing with foreman i may as well do it directly. [turns around and walks out. chase turns to look at cameron.]
[hits his cane on the window gaining foreman's attention] staph infection most commonly presents on the skin.
you're not laughing anymore.
[gives his typical house snark unsure face] sort of doubt it. staph would be in your heart lungs spleen liver or kidneys before it gets to your brain. your organs are clear. it's not staph.
which i would've seen in your mri [sets down the cane and pulls out a paper from his jacket] sign this so that i can take out a piece of your brain. [puts the paper in the drawer for foreman to retrieve it]
there was no abscess on the image.
[furrows his eyebrows and smirks] i liked you better when you were jolly. [walks over and gets the mri placing it on the window for foreman to look at it.]
if it was staph you would have a fever which you don't!
[looks at it quizzically] what idiot gave you that?
tell me your date of birth.
because my neurologist is having surgery!
you didn't believe that crap did you? [continues doing the procedure] date of birth.
oops! did you say ommaya? i could have sworn you said biopsy. hey i'm just messing with your head. mother's maiden name please.
still dying. [house continues to play with the ball and doing it with precision]
that's it?
well at least foreman was wrong too.
no. go back to the lab. start retesting all the samples that foreman collected.
everything. bacteria toxins fungus anything that likes to feast on brain.
then hurry! cameron suit up. you're gonna monitor foreman. he's on to hand contractures; he'll be on anton's blindness soon. run hourly checks because when he does go blind he won't be able to tell us. we'll use the data to construct a timeline so we'll see how far behind joe he is.
why are you still here?
[turns around angrily and interrupts wilson] how many of your guys have caught cancer from their patients? let me know when that happens. then we can have this conversation.
i'll bet you can even have unprotected sex with your cancer patients without even catching a damn thing. boy i wish i had your job. [turns around]
where's cameron?
imagine being constantly reminded of the pain you're about to be in.
so could pain-induced stress cardiomyopathy. either the morphine kills him or the pain does.
i'm certainly not going in there to stop him.
joe has a new symptom: hyperalgesia.
the infection is spreading into the pain center of the brain.
suit up. put the guy in a coma before the pain kills him.
did you find any cedar wood anywhere?
maybe what? [looks at foreman] maybe somebody can go back and take a second look? and why aren't you pissed off that cameron's playing hooky while your life hangs in the balance?
[sitting on a chair in the hallway] why doesn't anyone listen to me anymore?
god you're weak. guy steals your article tells you you're not his friend. you still wanna risk your life for him.
wow.
god you're weak. [cameron rolls her eyes] guy tried to kill you. first thing on my list of things do would be to stab him back. shoot him. i've got a gun in my desk. last thing on my list would be to lie to my boss about it and give the bastard everything he wanted.
ehh.[bounces head back and forth] even with a needle stick your chances of infection are pretty slim. that's why you're wearing the suit. you wanted to be here. he just gave you the excuse. what does that guy have to do to make you hate him?
give me the bag. [grabs something out] mildewed dishtowel.
what is that mouse droppings?
now that i recognize as oven crud.
what's with rye bread?
three loaves.
[goes silent for a moment thinking] you're going back in there.
[talking to cameron] guy who lives on takeout pizza does not buy three loaves of rye. that's looking too far into the future unless he cares about something a lot more than his diet.
you on the roof yet?
whistle or something. [cut to house looking outside] do that come hither thing.
they came that fast because it's their behavior pattern. joe's been feeding them. now look down you see a river of pigeon turd?
it's not weird it's cheap. joe's the guy who looks for the easy way.
probably been stealing cable from his neighbors. why not steal fertilizer from rats with wings? you see a shovel or a dustpan?
bucket full of pigeon crap. perfect home for cryptococcus neoformans.
fungus enters the brain through the sphenoidal sinus where it dances its triple threat of happiness blindness and intractable pain. let's hope this experience teaches our cop a lesson: don't cut corners when you're growing your pot. see you back home.
foreman. foreman! time of death.
time of death. 12:26 p.m.
cop with a sense of humor. you [pointing at foreman] check the cop car. also check his personal car work home. [shot of joe screaming foreman laughing.]
time of death 12:26 pm.]
i need a bone saw.
you said you would --
i just want a little tiny slice of this guy's brain that's all i need just enough to tell me what's killing foreman.
it's not a good idea to scream fire every time someone lights a match.
[shivering] oooh. level 3. we should call jack bauer.
well tell them we'll be really really careful.
whatever. the point is we'll be lucky to get results in three days.
-- and they told you
ah that's a shame because foreman will never get a chance to know what it was because he'll be dead in 36 hours. maybe this is a toxin; maybe it's not contagious at all. you're killing foreman because of a maybe.
foreman c'mere fast. [he sends a hammer and pick through the window.]
you're doing it. now. ever study how they used to do ice-pick lobotomies?
shove an ice-pick into the eye socket just above the tear duct. bang it a couple of times with the hammer get a sample.
can't do the time if you're not alive.
take your time guys! just tell them to go slow; it won't be your fault.
which is why we need to chop into the guy's head.
not to you foreman.
yeah? you have the answer? [he sees the guys almost suited up.] foreman do it now!
what are you doing?
he thinks he can see same as the cop.
forget it. you just biopsied a mattress.
apparently i was optimistic about the 36 hours. intractable unbearable pain is up next. sure you don't want to reconsider that whole autopsy thing?
if it was meningitis we'd all be sick.
lp's pointless. we already did a brain biopsy it was negative. [quick shot of said biopsy.]
how do we know you're not sick?
never. [chase guffaws.]
well let's assume it's not blood-borne. if you start cracking jokes we can reassess. in the meantime stay away from people and animals that you care about. [quick shot of foreman's empty chair.]
start treatment.
treatment for everything <U+0096> likely or unlikely. if you can think of it treat for it.
of course there's a better way! it's that body sitting in the room with him that cuddy won't let us touch! bacterials virals toxins fungals parasites <U+0096> it's got to be one of them.
to see if i can find another brain to biopsy.
[in a hazmat suit on a hands-free phone] i'm at the cop's place. you have to retrace your steps.
[taking out steve] where did you start your search?
you're going to tell me everything you did everything you touched. if you went to the john i want to know when and why.
what next?
wait for steve mcqueen to get giddy.
cuddy's shower. are you a fan of the brazilian? i hmm
well obviously i couldn't bring him here. he's been exposed to whatever foreman's got.
because i needed one with a clean medical history. who knows what kind of antibiotics they gave those rats.
eh it shouldn't take long. got the ac blasting i soaked the floor of his cage. [wilson looks fairly disgusted.] as soon as he gets sick i do an autopsy.
right after he gets sick there's a good chance he'll get hit in the head with a cane-shaped object.
first symptom is euphoria.
he doesn't usually climb on his water bottle like that does he?
she responsive?
big word. someone's been on the interweb.
well let's confirm your diagnosis before you have her held back. strobing lights and high pitched sounds can provoke a seizure. [quickly moving a penlight in front of her eyes] woooooooooooooooooooooooooo!
takes one to know one loser! wait that means i'm a loser. scratch that. these episodes she gets sweaty afterwards?
she seem upset by them or just tired?
you mix rocking grunting sweating and dystonia with concerned parents and you get an amateur diagnosis of epilepsy. in actuality all your little girl is doing is saying yoo hoo to the hoo-hoo.
marching the penguin. ya-ya-ing the sisterhood. finding nemo. [the little girl thinks all of these euphemisms are hilarious.]
it's called gratification disorder. sort of a misnomer <U+0096> if one was unable to gratify oneselfthat would be a disorder.
i was trying to be discreet <U+0096> there's a child in the room!
epilepsy is horrifying. teach your girl about privacy and she'll be fine. [hands the girl a lollipop] here you go.
you're upset that i'm doing clinic hours? wow that is so like rain on your wedding day.
yeah how's that going by the way?
tough to do an autopsy when they haven't even picked up the body.
i go watch the meds drip into his iv you think that'll make the treatment work faster?
feeling guilty? it's not too late to change your mind. go call the cdc tell them you were just joshin'.
the question is which treatment?
i don't care if you do it alphabetically. just stay on top of his vision <U+0096> first sign of regression means we've taken him off the wrong one. [chase enters.]
philosophical question: how do you want to die?
your choice is currently between four hours from now and fourteen hours from now so i'm assuming that means you want the latter.
the meds are curing what's in your head but they're trashing your pancreas. that's why you're puking and you can't stand up without screaming.
think you can handle a life without a pancreas? we keep you on these meds you'll spend the last four hours of your life being able to see. take you off you'll go blind again but it'll give us time to figure out what's eating your brain.
yeah you two can get caught up later. sir i need you to come with me.
he's not a what he's a who. they even have the right to vote now. rodney foreman cuddy. cuddy rodney foreman. [cuddy and rodney shake hands.]
this is foreman's dad.
dr. cuddy here is the dean of medicine. remember that cool autopsy i was telling you about the one that would save your son's life <U+0096> she's the one who can give us the green light to do it.
won't be soon enough.
oh don't blame the rules. don't hang this on policy and protocol.
they've got the cop's body in a locked airtight bag.
he hasn't gotten up to pee in hours he's due.
he wouldn't eat the donut.
no. i had to pee a couple times.
given that it is her fault it seems appropriate.
the only thing i can do is think. you can pretty much do that anywhere. as long as no one's bugging me.
good! it's an anomaly anomalies tell us things. why would this go faster in foreman what's different?
right! we were wasting all this time looking for an unknown disease we should be looking for a different strain of an unknown disease!
what? how long have you been sitting on this information?
check everything. bacterials fungals toxins parasites <U+0096> look for anything with a documented racial disparity. [house looks at steve's webcam.] wait.
no. he's completely healthy. maybe that's the difference between foreman and the cop.
you're dying too fast.
hey cuddy. having a nice visit?
[tries to speak with a vial in his mouth] legion <U+0096> [takes the vial out] legionella pneumophila.
foreman was perfectly healthy before he got this infection. our cop wasn't he had legionnaire's disease. our cop didn't turn into brain food until we cured the legionella. legionella slowed down the disease.
no idea. just know that it did.
you gonna tattle to the cdc?
if i put you under i can't monitor your pain. if i can't monitor your pain i can't tell if the legionella's working.
hmmm wish there could have been a puff of smoke or something. would have been much more dramatic. keep your slippers on wouldn't want you to cut your foot.
yeah.
but not great. it didn't fix anything it just slowed it down. the whole point was to give steve a little more time to get sick.
brilliant.
cameron what kind of illnesses affect humans but not rats?
because i'm sure you spent the first twelve years of your life dreaming of being a vet. the rat is not getting sick. cameron is not getting sick.
it's okay. it's not your fault. presumably you're still healthy because whatever it is is not blood borne. steve has no excuse; he did everything that foreman did.
and what infections could he be positive for but test negative for? when we test for infections we look for antibodies. [cue the cgi graphics!] now what if the patient is infected but has no antibodies <U+0096> what if the body is not fighting the infection?
neh eh i asked first. let's start with the what' we'll deal with the why' later.
exactly like the cop and exactly like foreman. and what if the patient was then exposed to a second infection like legionella? the body would recognize that infection increase the white count send in the troops to start fighting and the initial infection would get caught in the crossfire. so the question becomes what type of bacterial infection affects humans and not rats and the human body would be unlikely to recognize.
the answer is listeria. i'm starting you on amp and gent. [transcriber's note: that's ampicillin and gentamicin two antibiotics.]
and the fact that legionnaire's is helping you.
yeah.
stop asking me questions based on the premise that i'm wrong. the antibiotics are in the airlock.
absolutely. don't blame you. the world is such a complicated place if you've got higher reasoning skills. i'm often jealous of smaller animals and retarded children. take the antibiotics.
one slip you could spend the rest of your life not being able to keep your drool in your mouth.
sure i make it look oh-so-sexy. it's actually not as glamorous as you may think.
the antibiotics could do the same thing!
we try it we see!
pain makes us make bad decisions. fear of pain is almost as big a motivator. now look we still have time. i will do that biopsy if i have to but not a moment before. [foreman takes the pills.]
start foreman on iv antibiotics. where's his dad?
he's not with him.
i've started your son on a new course of treatment. if it works he'll get better. if it doesn't he won't. while he's not getting better he's going to experience so much pain that we'll have to put him in a chemically-induced coma while we figure out what to do next.
it's a pet name. i call him dr. bling.
when your son is in a coma you're the one who's going to have to make the medical decisions for him.
you don't care what i do?
any improvements?
like what?
give the antibiotics more time.
so he's almost in unbearable pain he's not almost dead which means we have more time.
i hang out in the basement you rag on me. i stay in my office you rag on me. honky just can't buy a break.
based on the cop's progression i figure he's got another four hours before <U+0096>
no. cutting open his head is what's dangerous.
i know you <U+0096>
not unless you people can't come up with something clever in the next three hours.
well who died and made you boss?
he's out of his mind! yesterday he was giggling about a hole in a guy's head.
you're sorry? you're talking about this man's son. you're denying him the right to be a part of <U+0096>
that was great!
yeah.
give me time.
an hour.
his o2 stats are at 94 right now. as long as they're above 90 the danger of fatal arrhythmia doesn't increase.
you were right. we should be cutting into a corpse's head.
there's got to be other bodies.
no that apartment was a dump. just because steve mcqueen didn't get sick doesn't mean some other varmint didn't. you give me an hour i go back there and find a dead animal we cut its head open instead of foreman's.
either you'll find the answer or i'll find the answer. doesn't matter.
found a blind bird.
i'll know in about 30 seconds. [house corners the bird but it flies off. he then finds a dripping and rusty pipe. again the cell rings.]
i screwed up.
that's not what i meant. i screwed up the first time through this place.
it's not where it's when. he came here in the early afternoon. me and steve came two hours too late you came six hours too early. it's the water the irrigation system only pumps <U+0096>
we tested the wrong water. he stole cable he stole fertilizer and he stole water. [looking at it under a microscope] it's riddled with naegleria.
you already did the biopsy?
up and at em.
keep your head still and follow my finger.
your breath stinks you're peeing into a bag. what are our names?
names.
you remembered.
wiggle your left toes.
your left toes foreman.
no you didn't.
he can move them. raise your right arm. [foreman raises his left. whoops.]
tonight. l word marathon.
on mute.
still sucking up so she'll fund your play space for the chemo kids? they really ought to save their energy for other things. like crying.
she asked you?
doesn't make sense. unless she ran out of batteries.
you're too nice for her to like you; she's not needy enough for you to like her. she's got an agenda just not one that includes an appearance by 'little jimmy'. i'll poll my peeps. [he goes into the conference room] how many of you think that cuddy asked-- [only cameron is there] or rather peep.
unless chase broke his neck falling off his polo pony he had no reason to be in the er.
seizures are cool to watch boring to diagnose. what about foreman? he needs to get his malingering butt back here.
glad you're back. cameron makes lousy coffee. take mine black the way i take my brain-damaged neurologists.
tell her everything is great. neither of us wants to deal with her guilt.
of course not hell if people felt guilt every time they accidentally lobotomised a guy...
yeah your heart was in the right place. [foreman can't seem to figure out how to open a packet of coffee] it's just his brain that's not quite where it's supposed to be. [he grabs the packet out of foreman's hands and tears it open with his teeth] tell her everything's great.
yeah might pull a muscle.
still bored. tell her why.
well done. but until you can remember how to make coffee hands off the patients.
can we focus on the task at hand? why did mommy twitch so hard she tossed the baby in with the bathwater?
of course i need you we're a team.
you're a moron; did you even look at the file? kidney functions fine.
what?
test her. [she walks out] cameron thinks it starts with a w; i'm thinking v.
think you can do a strep throat culture without the swab ending up in the guy's poop chute?
gotta be my guess.
do a digital subtraction angiogram. foreman can't tell up from down and cameron's a girl - all that mechanical stuff.
you're late. [he's lounging on the sofa next to the door and seems to have been there for quite some time]
what you got there? special panties for your date with wilson?
it's not a date it is business. and if it was business you wouldn't say it was none of my business.
i want to talk about your date with wilson.
this is fun. spring chase from nicu and i'll shut up about your date.
have you suddenly lost the ability to lie? nobody's quit nicu in two years. and if you're making up reasons that means there is no reason. which means he asked for the assignment didn't he?
absolutely.
so what causes seizures hypercalcemia and the thing where mommy bends like gumby?
oh oh baby's lungs are going to conk out any minute. probably want to deal with that.
multi-task.
let the indulging commence.
lithium doesn't show on a basic tox screen scarecrow.
rare complications of a rare blood cancer. you're not totally hopeless. get an s-pep and an mri for the myelogenous meningitis [to cameron]. search the patient's place for lithium [to foreman]. baby's lung problem is bacterial not chemical start ecmo [to chase]. while you're searching for the lithium take a water sample and check the pipes. you want me to write this down for you? [back to chase] i ask you is almost dying any excuse for not being fun?
why don't you want to work for me? i'm nice i'm fun at parties.
not to me. x-ray was too consolidated. so why are you down here? hoping to expand your make out pool to include the preme to nine-year-old demographic?
what a complete load of crap. what am i a nurse you're trying to prep with this vulnerability thing?
you don't start him on ecmo and that infection could rampage through his body like pistons fans after a championship. but you do it your way. nothing more honest than a dead baby [he gets into the lift]
not anymore. paid good money for it. [he finally finds the empty box that cuddy was trying to hide that morning] look at what she bought.
what is red clover used for dr wilson?
she doesn't wheeze flake or ache. and she didn't ask a pulmonologist or a dermatologist for dinner. she invited an oncologist. it's not a date it's a consult.
fascinating call me when we have--
so why is our patient bleeding into her brain?
she's bleeding because she's not clotting. so why is she not clotting? [foreman is in the room] what'd you bring us daddy?
you don't remember? she bled all over you this morning [foreman looks confused and a little distressed that house is suggesting something he can't remember]. kidding. idiots are fun; no wonder every village wants one.
hey it was your idea. now it's even better. mommy quits she gets the dts it even explains the seizure.
boozing mommy covers more symptoms. put her in a nice phenobarbital coma before the dts kill her.
where are you going?
what if i'm wrong? what if daddy's the drunk?
i want him to argue his point!
what's that saying where you assume you become a pain in the ass to me?
enough! get a pony or a watermelon farm!
i need him to react; i need him to act like a human being. i need him to get over this boring near-death rebirth.
nearly dying changes everything forever. for about 2 months. 2 months is too long i need the guy i hired back now.
waste of time; put her in a coma before the dts kill her.
it wasn't hard considering my other choice was your stupid psych theory. [he reaches for his vicodin] which was not stupid. i'm telling you i'm going to drop the n bomb if i have to.
did they change the name?
[notices the empty baby crib at the end of kara's bed] where's the baby? [he throws his cane away and quickly runs (as well as a crippled man can at any rate) into kara's room foreman hot on his heels]
no breath sounds crash cart and epi stat! [he starts giving the baby mouth-to-mouth] i told you your psych theory wasn't stupid.
hey take it easy on foreman. he's playing with one lobe tied behind his back.
you know what else might be a trigger? a physical illness. it's a wild idea i know especially since she doesn't have any obviously physical symptoms like internal bleeding or excess calcium.
ahhhh!! jesus! you've done it again! will you argue with me?! drinkers don't eat right explains the bleeding and the calcium this might just be some crazy drunk and i'm telling you that she's about to die of myelogenous meningitis.
exactly! it's an insane idea!
have an original thought. in the meantime stress her into having another seizure.
you also can't because it's dangerous and highly unethical therefore if you get caught pretend you can't make coffee mental defectives get tons of slack. [he sighs] take her off the haloperidol hook her up to an eeg flash some lights make her pant shoot her up with a placebo. when she starts twitching if the machine twitches along its real. if not call the cops because she's a psycho killer.
stop protecting him.
not if he wants to get better.
well then i need a new neurologist.
well if he got killed doing his job i wouldn't keep him on the payroll. i don't care how guilty you feel or how touched you are by his reborn spirit.
then you're guilt-ridden.
then you're pathetic!
you're right should stick around make sure he doesn't screw up.
how was dinner?
she lost her nerve.
what are you doing?
you're doing it yourself in the middle of the night? on a spoon. cuddy's spoon?
yeah. i do that after all my dates too. people think you're the nice one.
you go first. you desperately want this to be a date.
just admit that you like her. she's smart funny got a zesty bod. i think it's great you can look beyond the fact she's the devil.
she's my boss. she gets sick the hospital might replace her especially if she dies. i'd have to learn how to manipulate someone new.
find me when the results come in.
hmm... a genuine physiological illness that rules out a few things. like what i wonder?
thing about being a good loser you're still a loser.
since it's progressing we can assume it's progressive. which means it won't be long before the brain closes shop altogether. ideas?
chase shouldn't be wasting his time in the nicu.
no treatment for wernicke's is thiamine; we gave her that together with the vino.
she had to be smuggling it in to be getting sicker.
ideas are not soda cans recycling sucks. give me something new and shiny. or go retro take an old idea shine it up add a new symptom... encephalopathic delirium. pellagra.
he agrees with me what a shock.
so... what causes pellagra and crimson spew? [he bangs his cane on the glass wall in front of chase shocking him out of his mindless staring] dead baby while sad not our problem.
you killed him if you don't get over it you're going to kill momma too.
[looks at chase who is still despondent] chase would you get your head out of the dead baby's butt and focus on the barely alive-- [he suddenly realises something] how much polystyrene did you give the kid?
i need your son.
your wife's doctor. your son may have had the same condition she does.
if i biopsy her intestines she'll bleed out. he obviously won't.
ok. how about trading him for a beer? or maybe you're more of a whiskey guy. you didn't have strep or stomach bug the morning you came in you puked because you were hung over. if she was a recovering drunk and slipping most of the time you'd be right.
people are going to feel sorry for you; they'll tell you that you can't anticipate the unthinkable well the fact is you can. it's just not all that pleasant.
i know that people don't get crazy enough to kill someone without first being crazy enough for someone to notice. how many times did you go out for a drink because she was crying? how many times did you stay at work because you couldn't listen to her telling you what a bad mother she is? you were relieved. when she shut down. she just sat staring for hours at a time. she held the pillow over his head; you slept while she went nuts. not exactly a draw but--
let me do the test. it'll be one less thing for you to feel crappy about.
got a dead baby for you to autopsy.
love working nicu? i can get you transferred.
you don't give a crap about patients. [chase looks fed up and is about to walk out of the room] your paycheck. [he holds it up out of the pile on his desk] you've been double-dipping. taking your vacation time here while drawing a salary in nicu. strange - rich boy doing all that for some extra cash.
but your dad was; now he's dead. if you're not rich that means that daddy cut you out. [he gives chase the envelope]
don't let it change you. and do the test.
he was being treated with polystyrene.
it didn't. question is what do they use in the nicu to bind it together?
it's great stuff. unless your body can't tolerate it.
just like mom. celiac can be triggered by all kinds of stress. bills childbirth drunk husband. every time she had a bowl of pasta or a slice of bread a slosh of soya sauce her small intestine became more damaged [cgi of the small intestines and the villi] less able to absorb the vitamins and minerals in her bloodstream. her body couldn't absorb enough niacin caused the pellagra. didn't absorb vitamin k caused the bleeding. and celiac is why the baby's meds didn't work. his body just couldn't absorb them. switch mom to iv nutrition its gluten free that'll spruce her villi right up.
[to wilson] tell them what causes excess calcium. with a chaser of bloody vomit.
well she's your patient now. [he looks back at the sheet wilson gave him with the results of cuddy's pcr test] and it wasn't a date.
you don't have cancer.
you have no proof of that. i on the other hand have this. [he hands her the results sheet]
hey it's good news.
deal with it on your own time. bad news oestrogen is too high.
not this much not for at least for another week. that's when you ovulate.
once a month when you leave the kids cancer ward your eyes glisten. about three days later you break your ban on sugar and chow down a bucket of frozen yoghurt in the cafeteria sprinkles included. based on the last yoghurt sighting you've got another week before you ovulate. you're on fertility meds. with red clover as an herbal booster. [cuddy starts to look upset] and the dinner with wilson was an audition. it's too bad he didn't land the gig. he would have had fun.
so... when's our dinner? [with accompanying hand gestures]
oh he's going to be so disappointed.
is it my turn to say something obvious now? oh i know you were insane.
yeah like diabetics choose to not produce insulin. listen someone got sick someone died. happens every day. the only difference in this case is it wasn't the same someone.
spoken like a true sane person. this is not your fault. you're healthy now... except for the cancer.
you do not deserve to die.
she said no.
she was unstable now she's sane. she's entitled to refuse treatment.
fine go on in there and tell her that every day is a blessing! so you killed your baby shake it off think positive! at least you're alive. [he waits for a response] hmm. kinda hard to sell when you don't believe it huh? and you never believed it. you just wanted all that crap you went through to mean something well it didn't mean anything it never does. welcome back.
you were aspiring to be content.
yeah if we're all just satisfied with what we have what a beautiful world it would be. we'd all slowly starve to death in our own filth but at least we'd be happy. listen i need your self-worth to hang on this job. i need you kicking ass here to be all that lets you rise above being miserable if waking up in the morning is enough i don't need you.
no you can't. not anymore.
hi.
bye.
yeah.
it wasn't a date. [wilson narrows his eyes] turned out she had some skin lesions guess there was no genetic predisposition. [wilson looks a little suspicious but lets it pass]
all on the top page. i'm a real good reader. personal chart handoff means there's something else. i'm hoping it's not personal.
no problem.
do i know you?
doesn't ring a bell.
unless you mean dylan crandall the man who'll believe anything. see i just made you believe that i.
yeah pulled a hamstring playing twister. just gonna walk it off. so who's the girl?
no i said i'd give my right hand to have his left. why is she with you?
wow.
hmmm yeah. she looks just like you. [best to point out now that crandall is white and leona is black.] got the same fro.
yeah that's how babies are made.
that's unbelievable.
seriously i don't believe it.
you're a sucker. you always were.
why wouldn't i? she's not scamming me.
er said no. retest.
er said no. retest and read the damn file.
it's all a no.' everything about her heart is healthy.
it's better than crandall. he's a katrina victim victim.
what if her heart is like my bike? runs like crap when i'm by myself but take it to the mechanic and it runs great?
relax i happen to know she's going to have one right after lunch. we are golden.
sure you can but it's kinda technical <U+0096> you stick all these cool little wires inside her somehow and <U+0096>
oh right because it would be much more ethical to let it happen in an uncontrolled setting. there's always a team of cardiologists sitting at the next table this is jersey! she's a minor she's going to need consent.
oh that's an excellent plan! you'll give him the form and tell him it's wrong and dangerous.
okay i'll be crandall. dr. cameron <U+0096>
are you in this scene? go.
like to do? is this fun for you?
stay in character! i'm so scared. hold me.
swear to me on the bible you'd do this if it was your kid. good-bye.
it's a map of the electrical pathways of the heart. we send electricity to each one at a time until one fails.
it's a risk i am prepared to take.
well who's been watching bill nye the science guy? the test is perfectly safe. we do it every day. [as crandall prepares to sign] and you believe me.
it's crazy dangerous. just sign the damn form. [hands crandall a tissue]
blow your nose. i need dna from somewhere.
she's going to stay around just long enough to get your bank account your credit card numbers and then she's going to be off with her next daddy.
because of what she's been through.
because she's still alive! raised by a junkie living off the streets that tends to kick the sweetness out of you.
that's because you're an idiot.
no it means i don't trust her.
next! [leona fidgets and the monitors beep.]
is she hallucinating?
foreman is she hallucinating?
then the av node is not the bad pathway. all that was was a heart attack. reset her so we can find the real problem.
chase high right atrium please.
you have my permission to blame foreman at any negligence trial.
freeze it. [chase presses a button and cg graphics show the catheter freezing the damaged heart muscle.
she'll be fine by breakfast.
interesting reading.
they're losers.
donor 1284 likes square dancing. no one likes square dancing. 613 has been practicing medicine for five minutes calls himself a healer. loves mozart.
who they are what they do that doesn't matter?
oh sure. go with the jewish number.
but his mother was negative which means so's your baby.
the mediterranean-dutch factor on the dad's side? it's not a problem because his dad's mother didn't carry the thalassemia gene. bigger issue is the jerk composer genes. this mozart lie <U+0096>
you're designing a kid a loser kid! he's already getting pummeled at recess.
pretentiousness is hereditary. just cause they haven't found the gene yet
[poking his head in] what if it wasn't a hallucination?
not finished. what if it was an atypical seizure?
flashback. all that wind and rain from the hurricane post traumatic stress syndrome.
if she did have a hallucination then the heart problem that we predicted found and fixed was just a gigantic coincidence. [he leaves again.]
[yelling through the wall] what if the heart isn't a coincidence and isn't what caused the hallucination? an arrhythmia hurts. what if her hallucination was caused by pain? what if she has a disease that translates pain into a bizarre physiological response like a hallucination?
i can prove an autoimmune disease in five minutes. she needs a pet scan.
i'm proving that her hallucinations are a consistent response to pain which proves that she has an autoimmune disease.
easy. hurt them.
it's not going to hurt at all. we just need to make sure you don't move.
okay give me your arm. let's check your muscle responses. okay turn it over arm upward. everything okay?
you know he's not your father don't you?
i'm sorry; i didn't mean to hurt you. [he sticks her again in the leg.]
come on we both know it's a hustle. are the walls closing in?
spiders coming out of my nose?
give me your hand.
give me your hand! [he bends one of her fingers back.] forget it he's not the perfect mark because he was the perfect mark. plenty of people got there before you. he's used up tainted. pumped dry. [leona starts to scream because she sees house's face melt away.]
diagnostically she needed to be hurt. i wanted to hurt her. win-win. what i didn't consider was the threshold to trigger the hallucinations otherwise i would have done the fingerbending first instead of stabbing her twice. that was cruel.
good point. let's kill them all at once.
good point. let's do that.
good point. she's all alone poor thing no one in the whole wide world.
because that's where they keep the bone marrow.
how does someone who believes absolutely everything become a nonfiction writer?
here's how this is going to end: one day you'll be sitting at your computer writing one of your little music books and your daughter will come home with a big angry policeman who will throw you in jail because daddy touched my poozle.
happy to.
you're not afraid of the truth?
easy lay feigns truth and says she needs a bus ticket home to visit her sick grandma. you gave her a hundred bucks. she bought weed. i know because i told her you'd go for the sick grandma story.
come on do you know me at all?
did you get a new couch?
what color is it?
is that where you watch your cartoons after you take your bath?
fall asleep sometimes?
bless you. [cuddy enters.]
yes mistress. i'll write you a prescription for one of these. just wet and apply.
not a soul.
no i'm a really good secret keeper. i never told anyone that wilson wets his bed.
turn around.
not unless you want me to.
i was just thinking about what your mother looked like because your father obviously chose her for breeding purposes <U+0096>
natural selection sucks. we pick our mates based on breast size cars they drive. they did autopsies on married couples and found correlations in pancreas size. we're hardwired to pick for stupid reasons you have the chance to pick for smart reasons.
i'm not advocating wiping out entire races i'm just saying you don't want to mate with the first plastic cup that buys you a drink. [all this time he's wiping a patch with a alcohol swab.]
microbes can be sneaky.
twice a day. this is going to be fun.
we were 20 years old he had a car. if he had been a woman i would have married him.
no. lying girl lucked out and found one in the registry.
i don't think so.
said i wouldn't.
stop the radiation. [house rushes in to find black sludge trickling out of leona's mouth.]
i have no idea.
she pooped out of her mouth.
cause it oozed; if it was in her stomach it would have sprayed if it was in her lungs she would have coughed. this oozed as in squeezed as in reverse peristalsis. who's hungry mexican takeout?
means oops we were wrong because no autoimmune disease shuts down an organ in two hours. we need to do a liver biopsy find out what the real problem is.
hey need to talk to you. the good news is she doesn't have an autoimmune condition so she doesn't need a bone marrow transplant and we were able to stop the radiation in time. the bad news: she has potty mouth. her liver is failing she's made her digestive system go in reverse. it's actually much worse than it sounds. we need to do a liver biopsy. i don't know what's going to happen when we stick a needle into her liver but she could die right then and there.
no inside information on this one. but crandall three days ago you didn't even know this girl. if she'd been hit by a bus you wouldn't lose a moment's sleep. there are people all over this hospital who are in just as much trouble and just as not related to you.
it's brown it's lumpy i'm going to heave all over my desk.
i'm not protecting him i'm smacking her.
push me and i'll let her die just so you'll stop annoying me.
he's manufacturing responsibility he's not maturing. he hasn't changed at all.
that black ooze we saw? that was a bowel movement. out of her mouth.
he was having a rough time with his girlfriend. he was in love he was always in love. he wanted to marry her but i thought she was flaky sending mixed signals.
no i told him that i would talk to her.
technically [makes a reversing hand gesture] i was doing him a favor she was nuts! [wilson leaves in disgust leaving the food which house eats. he turns on the music but turns it off again. epiphany time!]
check it out.
his left hand is very subtle very delicate.
be dying a lot faster if i let you do that obviously unnecessary biopsy. now listen.
here's how to become a great artist. first get miserable. misery drives you to become a great artist but the art does nothing for your misery which drives you to drugs which makes you a lousy artist and this is not lousy.
not when he played this. something was screwing with his personality.
and that note that he says is out of tune it's not which means that something is screwing with his aural perception too. now what happens when you add all that to the liver disease which he supposedly died of?
played better when he wasn't. i think i mean no one knows for sure.
we can test this in three minutes.
so what is she foreman? light-skinned black chick or dark-skinned white chick?
true. this is a photograph of leona when she was 13 years old. she's darker now.
no tan line so unless those streets she's been living on are indoor streets i'm thinking she's got iron deposits in her melanin both byproducts of hemochromatosis just like granddad used to make. squid exam to calculate the amount of iron in her blood. and treat her with deferoxamine she'll be fine by lunch. cause you see i was wrong before about the breakfast.
it's a done deal. i knew it the moment i saw you. interview's just a formality.
lisa cuddy this is patrick glidahan. patrick's going to be the new intern rotating in my department.
bet you've been doing that your whole life huh?
we're all people. i like that. she's all hard science facts. i like to know a person's hopes and dreams. what kind of music do you like patrick?
you see this is why the face-to-face interview is so important. you've got to know who you're getting in bed with.
we developed a theory: hemochromatosis. like good scientists we tested that theory we proved that theory. we acted based on that proof and we treated her. as a result of which she is on the verge of death. is it just me or have we discovered a flaw in the scientific method? walk me through it step-by-step. what is supposed to happen when you give someone deferoxamine?
what does the chelating do?
how?
moves around where?
her waste system is a little screwy right now means the waste can't go where it wants to go. what if it went to the lungs?
what likes iron?
no objections to that one?
when in doubt go broad.
continue to ventilate her lungs get her on a voriconazole drip hope she has aspergillus.
i looked up loser' in the cryo bank. you wouldn't look within a hundred miles of that idiot and yet you're willing to have his baby.
cotton ball? i don't care if you marry this guy date this guy go through his garbage but you should know. genes matter. who you are matters. find somebody you trust.
someone you like.
it's not what you think.
or i never ran the test. [cameron enters.] not what you think!
you can stop. she ruined it.
three rules for hunting fungus. location location location.
okay the one thing we know for sure is she was not living in the children's shelter in ridgeland.
he wouldn't if he believed her story about the sweet little girl trying to do the right thing.
don't try to talk you've got a big medical thing in your mouth. just blink if you understand. [blink.] fantastic. blink if you lied to crandall about everything. you picked up a fungus somewhere. if you were living in the shelter like you told your new daddy i got nothing to go on and you will die. so did you lie to crandall? you're a lousy con artist. first rule of the game is know your mark. once you got crandall to bite on the poppet thing you had him. you could have told him that you were servicing al qaeda's suicide bombers for crack this guy would still let you pick out the colors in your new room. did you lie to crandall? [blink. house puts a pen and paper in her hands.] where were you?
and the winner is oh you read it i just get so nervous at these things.
she read the book. she knew how much crandall hated that place what went on there. she overplayed her hand.
recording studios. why are these buildings different from all other buildings?
where there's moisture a lot of it let's say katrina moist there's <U+0096>
start her on an iv drip of amphotericin b with colony stimulating factors. she'll be fine by dinner.
you're welcome. you came all the way up here just to tell me that?
pretty much normal. liver function tests are good.
what makes you think you'd be a good father?
well at least you've got a good reason.
she's choking she can't breathe. get him out of here will you? out! [grabs random instruments] quick the curtain! you're breathing on your own choking's normal. i lied to him i ran a paternity test. your lie was a bad one. he is your dad. [to crandall] we're even.
cotton ball? i don't care if you marry this guy date this guy go through his garbage but you should know genes matter. who you are matters. find somebody you trust.
someone you like.
someone you like.
played better when he wasn't. i think i mean no one knows for sure.
we can test this in three minutes.
someone you like.
he's got a temperature of 103.
because we're human beings. it's what we do. said he was at a luncheon meeting.
guy looks like harpo. you should see him.
it's hilarious to watch him try and talk. i asked him anything i could think of. favorite color? bwuu.
favorite dessert topping? [the man who will now be known as vince hesitates.] trust me you'll never know what fact may be the key to saving your life
i asked him if he was sure. [foreman packs up.] where're you going?
i know. where're you going?
skinny brunette.
i'm skinny. how do you know her name?
oh well if you want to leave the chocolates downstairs <U+0096> [jack pulls out a gun and shoots house in the side. cameron gasps and as house collapses against the whiteboard the three teammates start to run toward him.]
you're pathetic. [cameron puts down her book.] judging by the growth i'd say i've been unconscious for two days. you've been sitting there the whole time.
judging by the oily buildup in your hair i'd say you're lying.
did i lose any organs?
well i always say if you're going to get shot do it in a hospital.
i don't remember that one.
don't care.
i assume his reasoning was faulty. so what was it? infection?
not me. patient. harpo.
i got shot. diagnostically boring. big fat tongue on the other hand endlessly entertaining.
and it was negative. and the blood tests were negative.
you don't biopsy a tongue unless you have to biopsy a tongue and you don't have to biopsy a tongue unless you've already come up with nothing on a routine battery of tests which don't involve torturing the patient. any other symptoms beside the increased intracranial pressure? any guesses on how i figured that one out?
i'm talking to cuddy.
[as he's walking out with his iv] not today today i'm on morphine.
check harpo's trash.
come on you're curious. trash. you don't know what i'm talking about but you know it's good.
well then stop me.
physically stop me.
you can't because that would involve touching me and then things would get so sexually charged <U+0096> [cameron physically stops him. oh how things are sexually charged?] i'm twice your size get your hands off me.
biopsy the lymph node under the jaw.
he needs to be shot again.
if your security was any good i wouldn't have been shot in the first place. [he fiddles with the morphine drip.]
who did my surgery?
he screwed up.
i'm not. i'm reducing it.
i'm feeling better.
my stomach kills me my neck is throbbing my leg feels better.
it's unbelievable. since getting shot is not an fda-approved treatment for anything it means something must have gone wrong in the surgery.
he must have nicked something in my peripheral nervous system. if it's alleviating pain who knows what else it's doing.
why did you try to kill me?
then the gun thing might have been a mistake.
i'm fine i think. cameron you got my records?
and yet you're holding them. and whispering.
yeah. killer needs his rest. otherwise he's grumpy all day. [house bangs on jack's bed with his cane.] hey! wake up! watch me save a life!
do an lp. [to jack] see what i did there? couldn't have done that if you killed me.
couldn't have put it better myself. [they leave and house is left to his notes.]
i have a rule. people who shoot me forfeit the right to <U+0096>
oh i know this story. she died so you selected one of her doctors to kill because that would make everything right again.
i'm truly sorry i did that.
you caught crap. she left you. now i've gotta pay because you couldn't keep your little killer in you pants.
what sort of hospital has glass walls?
really?
no i just figured a co-worker or sister not wife.
don't worry it's not insulting. at least not to you. you're satisfied with that answer?
you're not going to shoot me are you?
sevens marry sevens nines marry nines fours marry fours. maybe there's some wiggle room if there's enough money or if somebody got pregnant. but you've got at least three points on your husband and your frock says he didn't do it for the money and your breasts say you haven't had any kids.
numbers don't lie. we're having trouble finding out what infection your husband has. the most likely culprit is an std.
is your friend single?
i should go. [his hand is bloody and there is blood on his robe.] i seem to have torn my stitches. [he collapses on the floor.]
i remember. i was there.
you shoot the guy who sold her the gun?
you shoot the guy who sold her the garage door opener? [jack smirks.] you're an ass.
the shooting just makes you an idiot. you're an ass because you're trying to wrap it in a flag like you did a good thing.
watch out you're getting crumbs on the flag. i didn't commit to honor her i didn't commit to never lie to her.
if you kept your pistols in your pants <U+0096>
here's how life works. you either get to ask for an apology or you get to shoot people. not both.
infections don't make your eyes pop out.
not done eating. got to be some sort of bleeding disorder.
look my stitches pop out again i got three doctors to save me. could be some sort of weakness in the lining of the ocular veins. [the team is silent.] okay i'll be you guys. [in an australian accent] no way mate! too much blood to just be a vein! no way hizzy! if it was an artery he'd still be bleeding! [and now on to cameron] actually he'd be dead.
tongue and eyes are sick. what about the nose? it's right in between why isn't it sick?
which can only be what?
check the brain's trash see what it's hiding.
i know all its garbage just gets caught in the snow fence by the side of the road.
what else? biopsy the barrier.
biopsy the barrier first start him on mebendazole in case it's a worm.
i really don't think the wife is the kind to be messing around. if i was married to her i certainly wouldn't <U+0096>
my body is fine. [he's looking over the operation notes again.] my mind on the other hand <U+0096>
spoke to every nurse on that floor the patient only had six visitors. two females no babes. his mother and his aunt.
my posse never saw her or me talking on the other side of the glass.
there's only one possible conclusion. it was a hallucination. what does that look like to you a .6? [he holds the chart up to wilson.]
my perceptions are compromised and my judgment is compromised. what if his wife told me that the patient just got bit by a rabid vietnamese leopard?
and the next case?
and what if i don't? what if it wasn't the shooting?
what if it was the surgery?
why did gillick give me ketamine during my surgery?
we need to talk.
why would a surgeon administer ketamine?
how do you know it's mine?
my anesthesia was almost non-existent and yet i wasn't awake. for some reason someone decided to put me in a dissociative coma instead of just putting me out.
fine i'll go beat the truth out of my surgeon. gillick right? [he stalks off. cuddy notices that while he is carrying his cane he isn't using it to walk and isn't even limping much.]
you had no right!
you messed with my brain!
no. it's a point of principle.
don't worry i'm sure something else is wrong.
on which side?
the first thing that makes sense.
you worried? i marked a change of meds on his chart. [and back to vince] foreign object body wants to get rid of it causes the fever.
find it.
have been negative. what do you do if your trash cans are full? you use your neighbor's trash cans. except it's still light outside your neighbor will see you. so you go out the back way into an alley and drop off your trash by their garage.
you got that from trash cans in the alley?
yeah. go get lung lymph. [the team leaves.]
i wouldn't have hired him if he wasn't smart.
how the hell did you know i was awake?
no they do not.
test was negative.
force of habit.
the blood had to come from somewhere. you took a shower in it.
you think someone snuck in here just to kick him in the jewels and poke out his eye and swell up his tongue? keep riding i've got a bet with my physio that i can do 100 clicks by friday. what about blood from the kidneys? [they all stare at him.]
yeah basic human anatomy. therefore i think it's safe to assume that the problem lies elsewhere. but given that this case doesn't make any kind of sense whatsoever maybe we should even question the basics.
an anatomical defect would seem more likely but let's not rule that one out.
yeah yeah i know. question is why i didn't think of it.
sac blowing up on the other hand
i screwed up some basic anatomy and i'm misconnecting a testicular explosion with a testicular problem. think there's any way i would have done that before cuddy messed with my brain?
yeah i can run like the wind but i can't think. seeing as how i'm too old to become a professional athlete she screwed me over big time. [they move to the hallway.]
oh here we go.
well here's the flaw in your argument: if i enjoy hating life i don't hate life i enjoy it.
i don't define myself by my leg.
why are you protecting her?
you're completely comfortable with what she did to me?
you agonize over moral choices. you aren't completely comfortable with anything until you've taken days to get your head around every possible side. i've known what she did for six hours. how come you're acting like you've known for days?
what do i have?!
what do i have?!?
i have my brain. that's it!
yeah nobody tries to screw up they just do!
i can make people better! and you decide to trade that for jogging shoes!
you value the physical so much let me put this in terms you understand! [he punches wilson in the jaw.]
yeah i'm hallucinating!
how did you know i was <U+0096>
no.
i never called wilson by his name.
you're not the hallucinatee wilson was the hallucinatee.
cuddy's office was the hallucinatee the bathroom was the hallucinatee.
what figures?
damn it. [he tries to hide it as the team enters. they don't notice it at all.]
no.
so let's recap. we've just ruled out everything which doesn't make sense and the answer has to be something that does make sense. do a cystoscopy make sure he's human.
for him being human?
hmm. find out if his father hunched? [and down the stairs.] his father have trouble peeing? [and up and down and up.] his father have sex with his own mother? the answer to any of these questions if yes assume you're right. if the answer's no assume you're right but biopsy some prostate lymphs just to make sure.
how did i get here?
i was in the icu and then i was coming down these stairs with you guys. what happened in between? i don't remember how i got here.
i'm taking myself off my case.
i think i'm losing my mind. i'm having blackouts.
i lied.
i'm off the case. [as he turns to leave] why did you jump up when i came in?
again?
no i wasn't.
that was a hallucination <U+0096>
-- which means this is a hallucination.
how can i tell what's real and what's not? everything looks the same sounds the same tastes the same.
why not? you're obviously not here. i'm obviously not here which means this is a creation of my mind which means i'm really just asking my mind.
hey i'm trying to work this out. that requires give and take even in my own mind.
how can i tell what's real?
that doesn't sound like something i'd ask.
with you so far.
that sounds like me.
so i trust my team.
something doesn't make sense. what does that mean? it's not rhetorical. i need your input on everything i ask no matter how obvious it might seem.
it means one of your assumptions is wrong because if something doesn't make sense it can't be real. so what are our assumptions?
let's go more basic.
tests themselves. what does a biopsy consist of?
define sample.
you go down the shore you fill a cup with water. it's got no fish in it. does that mean no fish in the ocean?
we can fill another cup of water but we've gotta dive in. we've gotta see what's actually in there.
what if we could find a way of doing the surgery without giving him more than a papercut?
people suck. people have turned you from a guy with a swollen tongue into a guy with one guy one ball and a stapled-on face. if you want someone to hold you while you cry yourself to sleep at night choose warm and soft. if you want someone to write you a poem pick the sensitive loner. if all you care about is that something's done right pick the guy with the metal head.
no way no way. you've gotta see this thing in action before you say no way. come on. [he helps vince to sit up.]
nothing. i'm not doing anything. just throwing out ideas. i think you should put him in a wheelchair and take him down to the or but i may be out of my mind.
relax cameron. i'm not going to cut you. i just want to show what this puppy can do. i can make one millimeter incisions. you know how small that is? small even in metric. [to vince] if i do something that doesn't make sense even to you stop me. [he moves the tweezer hand down to stroke cameron's cheek.] delicate no? [he then lifts up the hem of her shirt and uses the air hand to blow air into her belly button. and then he cuts off a button on her blouse peeling part of the shirt away to reveal her bra.
does that hurt. [cameron shakes her head.] seen enough?
that wasn't a question. you either do this or you die.
yeah. if only i'd dedicated my life to finding someone worthy to shoot.
not to me. [house is searching for a pen to write on the board with.]
i care because i live. i can't care if i'm dead. [he moves to the wall dragging the bed with him because he's still chained to it.]
you anti-semantic bastard.
working here.
[looking at his makeshift whiteboard] that does not make sense.
i'm sorry. i know what's wrong.
he'll be fine.
how come you guys have never tried to yank me off this case? i'm having hallucinations blackouts.
i'm almost always eventually right. you have no way of knowing when eventually' is. every time i've had an epiphany on this one you guys were right on board. no challenges nothing to explain. no offense but either you guys are getting smarter or i'm getting dumber.
i know the test results even before you enter the room. we have identical knowledge. how is that possible?
something doesn't make sense. one of your assumptions has to be wrong because if something doesn't make sense then it can't be real. but what if the faulty assumption is that it's real?
i've lost it. [he starts to move his hand toward the robot controls; chase grabs it.] why did you stop me?
you don't think that. you know it because you're in my head. as long as the delusion makes sense my mind lets it go on. to make it not make sense i have to push it past the point where it can trick my mind. [he grabs the controls.]
it's also possible i may already be dead but i don't believe in the afterlife.
this is not real therefore it's meaningless. i want meaning. [he stabs vince in the bellybutton and makes a deep incision up to about his stomach. organs force their way out of his chest. he flatlines quickly. as the team looks on horrified house walks toward vince.] oh god. [vince's hand falls down and out drops a bullet. house picks it up and clutches it.] goodbye.
hello.
you don't know that. tell cuddy i want ketamine.
