[enters] we got a case.
just got a call from patty michener from women's majority the women's rights —
her assistant flipped out. ripped off her clothes in front of a room full of businessmen.
anemia bradycardia and abdominal pain aren't psychiatric symptoms.
house actually wants a case and you're saying no?
you haven't been by his office?
could be years before you see any symptoms.
you did an endoscopy?
ct scan?
why not?
house this is the kind of case you love. [house looks over.] contradictions piling up left and right.
great to have you back.
there's nothing we can do?
surgical complication?
so the pregnancy was a coincidence.
page house.
page him again.
her heart's stabilized. we have a pacing wire in her but the bradycardia is not getting any better.
there aren't any. she had a vitamin deficiency and we corrected it an ectopic pregnancy we removed it.
start her on interferon for ms.
shut up. you're making me miss house's mocking.
it's an abnormal growth of nerves it could be causing all the patient's symptoms. we have to open her up again. get a piece of it.
we need a piece of the ganglioma.
and if there is one and you missed it?
but we're not talking about another videotape. this one showed a bump we need to biopsy.
you're through the sigmoid into the descending colon.
there i see it.
scalpel.
it's not as if a lot of things cause amyloid. rheumatoid arthritis.
got anything constructive to say? [he’s probably upset that taub has taken over his usual role in ddxs of criticizing everyone else’s ideas.]
there seems to be some disagreement.
does it look like a pretext?
there are no palpable lymph nodes.
i already showed it to an immunologist. we'll start her on chemo. [pause] you should leave. house doesn't want to lose his sidekick. cuddy doesn't want to lose her check on house. no one's talking about what you want.
want to need to. if there's any chance that being away from here will make your life even a little bit easier do it. that's what everyone else here would do.
one living one almost dead. four fully dead. nothing in common except their donor. carl got a new heart and lung — liver kills him. tibalt got a new liver lung killed him. holly got a new kidney her heart blows up. and frank the old guy gasping for breath upstairs he got an intestinal graft his pancreas is failing. all within eight months of each other. and in each case serious complications came on suddenly and without warning.
you secure enough in that theory to send her home?
wouldn't cover vasculitis. henoch-schonlein purpura —
cancers have names. they have a progression. they affect specific organs. bone cancer can't turn into liver cancer. forget cancer.
it's not cancer.
no single type of cancer blew up three organs in the chest while also herniating in the fighter's brain stem.
four autopsies and about 1000 lab tests say it's not cancer.
[approaches] her right eye's failing.
we need to remove the eye.
we could remove the other one but since it's not killing her i thought this way was less insane.
i'm sorry. we need to remove your eye.
you just did the test.
it was wrong.
500 different things can cause hallucination. doesn't mean it's neurological.
he got hit in the head he died no mystery. that was your point.
who is he?
you found out anything medical?
but he didn't drop his hands which means he maintained muscle tensity —
you were right.
he maintained muscle tensity but was momentarily distracted when he got hit. that's a temporal lobe seizure.
no.
you were right but no.
you're back to cancer?
there would be evidence of cancer.
you need it to be cancer so you have an excuse to talk to wilson.
i didn't call you an ass.
the fact that the kid's colonoscopy was negative doesn't prove anything.
we don't know if the kid inherited anything. even if she did kutner's theory is that the thing's intermittent.
it's not gonna —
it's more than stuck. the bowel's been dead for six hours. no matter what you shoot up there it's closed. [kutner plays with the machine trying higher pressure.] this is nuts.
yeah. wow. but not much. increase the pressure.
yeah normal bodily sewage.
[looking at screen] wait. what's that?
what if you're not at the end? what if it's a core lesion?
not too much. if it's the end and we — [frank explodes all over foreman.]
ms?
where are you going?
treatment for what?
she's better.
vomiting's a side effect of the chemo. her heart rate's stabilized breathing's good. amylase and triglycerides are both coming down.
can't believe it. it's cancer.
what did you see in her?
treatment proves it's cancer.
you treated for cancer.
tibalt wasn't receiving cancer medication.
this makes no sense.
so the symptoms just came on. acute onset visual agnosia points to a stroke or brain tumor.
we should do another with contrast.
sorry to interrupt but we have a patient with a probable brain tumor.
house. that's enough.
if there is a tumor this test will show us —
don't worry. we're prepared to deal with whatever happens.
how many people you know have reactions like that to something they ate for breakfast?
you’ll continue to get better. if you're not we need to know why not so we can start treatment immediately.
time course means we can rule out cancer and ms.
a cavernous angioma in the brain could leak. once the blood gets reabsorbed the pressure goes down the symptom goes away.
i don't know. he was fine then all of a sudden he started seizing.
drug b is an autoimmune treatment. almost no side effects.
there's a million ways these drugs could interact if they're doing what they're supposed to. if they're not two million.
his head and neck are completely swollen. i need a trache kit. his throat's closing. [foreman uses ambu-bag while kutner gets the trache kit.] can't find any landmarks.
an exploratory trache?
[cuts brendan’s neck] got it. [he inserts the trache tube.]
could be his immune system's on hyperdrive. cytokine storm.
he just completed a total dialysis. if it was the drugs he'd be better.
try it out.
what happened to his face?
what about kluver-bucy syndrome? bilateral lesions in the temporal lobes. visual agnosia and hyper-sexuality are the key symptoms.
withdrawal complications.
the damage can be a circulatory issue rather than structural. we wouldn't see that on the mri.
a genetic disorder. waardenburg syndrome causes arrhythmias and can change hair color.
if he's got romano’s he's got at least five gene mutations. not a big leap to think he has others that would give him the hair.
anybody read chinese? otherwise we have no idea what these doctors did to her.
house let me do the ultrasound. you need to deal with your dad and stop —
uh no thanks. i'm good.
[quietly] they were treating her for… [very quietly] sars?
lung involvement isn't very severe.
house? you there?
we need to pinpoint which defect she has so we can start her on the right anticoagulant. draw her blood. let's find out which genetic gift her genetic parents gave her.
i didn't tell you so you could send anything. just wanted you to know the extent to which the man is disconnected from the human race.
the belly pain points toward a gi tumor.
he wasn't looking for a tumor. go run a ct.
ct can find small intestinal cancers that an ultrasound —
looks like a mass in the pancreas.
it's fluid-filled.
large cyst. something going on there?
seriously? what'd you do?
diameter is at least eight centimeters.
the head.
great idea except the only symptom it matches up with is being steamrollerish.
i think he thought he had an idea. i also think his metaphors are tough enough to decipher after he's said them. we need to be focusing on the medicine.
there's not gonna be an answer. they've been arrested.
he reacted to the size and location. that's what we should be focusing on. not playing mad libs while our patient's exploding noun destroys her life-sustaining noun.
this is a waste of time. [he leaves.]
he whistled. it's huge. anyone would think so.
gallstones or pancreatic divisum.
he asked about location.
it's at the head. she's got gallstones.
relax. we got it.
gallstones could cause a pancreatic cyst.
cysts are symptoms not diagnoses.
how do we prove it? won't be visible in a scan. chase isn't gonna go groping around when she's got kidney failure.
hello? it's house. [turns on speakerphone]
we did a three-dimensional echo. showed a mass in the left atrium.
poison?
she's had them in her all these years.
(to thirteen) wait. were you doing drugs?
what if the eye problem wasn't with her vein but with her blood? would explain why she seized why she's always tired.
what?
i’ll go. make sure he doesn't steal any underwear.
think you can pick a lock faster than me?
nice. steal from your employees.
give me my key.
you expect me to believe that you hired lucas to investigate everyone except for me?
i already know everything about you.
you know that i stole a car when i was a teenager. you know that my mom has alzheimer’s. you know nothing else. (foreman has put on latex gloves and is searching the purse)
not needy. just don't buy it. you always want more information about people. look where we are.
purse is clean.
you found her diary —
there are ways of getting to know people without committing felonies.
because conversations go both ways.
that um thing you were hoping house didn't find at your place. i uh i found it. (he pulls a folded piece of paper from his pocket and hands it to thirteen who puts it in her lab coat pocket)
you did the cag test two weeks ago. a number this high means you have less time than you thought. it’s understandable you'd be upset. doesn’t mean you have to self-destruct.
there are things you should be doing. working out improving balance and coordination.
you’re doing drugs. (they now turn to face one another) staying up all night having sex with strangers.
traffic’s bad. she’s probably just —
just spoke to my brother.
i mean my parents' other son.
got a call last week from your pi. you lied. you did have me investigated. you’ve been taunting the team with what you've learned but you never came after me. (grinning) means you couldn't find anything.
i heard.
sorry if i upset you. i didn't want to invade your privacy.
think you're gonna find something we didn't?
films are clean. we ruled out hypertension. guys have her on a treadmill running a methacholine challenge. and i still think you've been acting like an idiot.
it’s probably just over-exposed.
suggests a pulmonary obstruction.
(who followed thirteen) nice.
luckily thirteen figured out the problem and was there to re-inflate her lung.
house she deserves another shot. she found the cysts saved the patient.
(to thirteen) i’m sorry. (he follows taub and kutner leaving thirteen standing alone in front of house)
there’s no danger of that right now. if we don't figure out what's wrong with her she's got days not years.
or mastocytosis which can cause systemic shock and kill her in days.
she doesn't have langerhans.
actually a cancer diagnosis would be good news right now. (he pauses) do you think… i’m boring?
you’re saying that just to screw with me.
i expect house to pull my strings. i expect cameron to make me feel better. i expect the new team to kiss my ass. and i expect you to be honest 'cause you don't give a crap.
thanks so much. (he peers into a microscope)
spencer’s gonna be fine. and i hear you got your job back. i’m gonna keep standing here until you say something.
she gets to live.
but she's been dying for a kid for three years. no way she's gonna back out now.
and there'd be residual damage on the ct.
how is she?
i'm sure she's just freaked out about her dad. [he looks past her.] mr. harmon? [jerry is at the elevator fully dressed.] mr. harmon.
sorry you're gonna have to reschedule.
[flashlight in hand] look at his eyes.
his pupils are responsive. i think he's… asleep.
sleepwalking's not a diagnosis. it's a symptom. as long as we can't figure out why —
not in the middle of the day before they've even put their head on a pillow.
he said he had an appointment.
but it doesn't explain the rip in the space-time continuum. coke leads to sleepwalking which leads to coke which leads to sleepwalking. what caused the first sleepwalking?
and neither cocaine or allergies are the answer.
only need one against.
so you do know what they have?
but they aren't gonna be fine?
why the hell would you say they were?
for two seconds?
they're sick. they're tired.
most common cause of anhedonia is schizophrenia.
his kidneys are fried. if he doesn't have fmf the colchicine will kill him.
we provoke a seizure. the indicator is the increased electrical activity focused around the abnormality. we do an eeg see the focus see where the problem is which tells us what the problem is.
could be a million things. there's no way to know unless we get him in for an mri on his head or exploratory surgery so we can biopsy his bowels which he won't let us do.
what did we see on the intestines? pink mucosa flattened villi. it's not whipple’s it's gotta be celiac. wheat allergy means she's not absorbing nutrients. explains the seizures stomach and now the nerves.
it is a valid test.
we'll do both tests.
his heart's back to sinus rhythm but it's bradycardic. taub's putting in a temporary pacemaker. it'll keep his heart beating for now.
unless he's eating a bouquet a day he couldn't —
highly fat soluble. he lost weight after the stomach pain. explains why his symptoms kept getting worse.
she'd be having gi problems. pregnancy's more likely. sparks a fluid overload hits the lungs causes the pulmonary edema.
and our history says she could be lying.
but every teenager is stupid. teenagers on their own are stupider.
kutner can do the echo on his own.
i've been asked to help run a clinical trial. that okay with you?
you have four doctors and never more than one case. it means i have time to work on other things. and they'll have more chances to step up. stand on their own.
if there's a problem with sophia or any other patient you know i'll be there. the patient is my priority.
you mad at me because you think kutner screwed up the echo?
(getting up) start her on the treatment. page me if you need me. (he leaves)
i owe clinic hours.
i'm here because house doesn't want me to be here.
he didn't need to say no. he just wanted to say no.
don't suppose you'd want to override?
does it matter? (he picks up a new red clinic file) just figured you could use some help down here.
(to jonah while pressing on the left side of his abdomen) that hurt? what about that? (pressing on the other side)
it's actually a smart idea. which is why that's the first thing the other doctors checked. (to evan) his insides are clear. (to melinda) anyone else sick at daycare?
how 'bout his friends?
not sure yet. don't worry. i've got an idea. (foreman gets up to leave)
that's my plan.
i didn't switch her meds.
prinzmetal angina.
i'm not talking about her heart. i'm talking about her head.
no reason it couldn't cause an artery in the brain to spasm. leads to the delirium and the pulmonary edema.
set her up. when you're ready —
to do the procedure. when you get everything set up page me.
pretty cool huh? this can go places the other scopes can’t. jonah i need you to swallow this pill.
it doesn't hurt. promise.
i don't want to be mean but if you don't do this we'll have to make you.
jonah’s lucky. i was pretty cruel to my little brother when i was your age.
i guess i thought that's what big brothers did. obviously i was wrong.
no. (he is watching the monitor as the pillcam makes its way through jonah’ digestive system)
he can't feel it. what's funny your brother?
i don't know.
how you guys getting along?
house was asking questions last week.
you're obviously fine. (he hands chase jonah’s file) i need a differential for uncontrollable giggling.
yeah. nothing like diarrhea and bloody vomit to put you in the mood to goof around. i've looked down one end and up the other. all the tests came back clean. i can't figure this out.
this isn't house's case. (he again hands jonah’s file to chase)
(he reads the message) gotta go. (he leaves quickly)
(sitting down) sorry.
left middle cerebral artery looks good.
nothing around the vertebral artery. no sign of spasms.
arteries are fine. you can stop.
wow.
gonococcal endocarditis would explain the pulmonary edema the delirium.
it's not stress. she has none of the usual manifestations. no hormone imbalance no cardiac —
no fever no stiffness no rash.
tsh and 3 t4 were within range. ruled out all the usual suspects.
your feelings are hurt?
long shot. altered mental status means porphyria's more likely.
then we test for both.
thanks.
not exactly. the problem would be with your body chemistry.
if we're right we should see a change in your lungs pretty fast. then we can figure out how to manage your stress.
(looking down) not anymore. stress wouldn't change your urine color.
but not the original lung symptoms. legionnaire's could and cause delirium.
tests didn't show —
(getting up and moving toward the door) arsenic gets absorbed in the internal organs so it doesn't show up in the blood tests. test her hair. if it's positive chelate it out of her blood. (he leaves)
you paged me with negative test results?
not his case.
we're not there.
(to melinda) we need to run some more tests.
we'll figure this out. i just need —
we need a crash cart!
he's in cardiac arrest.
nothing. go again.
he's back. (he sighs loudly)
we need to talk.
cuddy?
(holding out the jonah’s file) he needs you.
this boy is going to die. you selfish enough to let it happen?
you're a hypocrite. if our job is to find out what's killing patients you'd help this kid. but you'd rather play mind games to prove you're the only one with magical powers.
against me i get. his ego's killing my patient.
what are we missing? what's not in the file?
the brother would have noticed said something. evan's even more protective than she is.
he's the opposite of jealous. he includes jonah in everything he does. makes sure he eats brushes his teeth.
from his vitamins. if i'm right we can treat him tonight. he'll be back to his old self in the morning.
i know. (he looks over at evan who is curled up in a chair with a blanket and a pillow)
he's gonna be okay.
well that's the great thing about brothers. you can make mistakes and they'll still love you.
i want to do clinical trials.
i've proved that i can work two cases at once. i can do this. and i'm doing it.
okay? just like that?
three days ago you said no.
got a minute?
i'm consulting on some clinical trials that involve cns compounds.
one's a new huntington’s drug. phase three trials are showing real results delaying neuronal degeneration. probably get you in.
[following her] are you doing anything about your disease following any kind of program?
it's foreman and every fellow you've had in the last five years.
chest pain the lung problems fatigue rash. sounds like chronic lung infection.
white blood cell count's normal. it's not infection.
i don't believe it. chase was right. you're gonna kill someone. i don't want to be a part of it. [he leaves.]
a week of temporary dialysis your kidneys will be okay. [she sighs] i'm sorry i backed out of the differential.
i'm taking over the people that already started it at mercy. so pretty full. stop. [he resets the machine.] one more time. no talking.
you have huntington’s so you get a spot. stop. one more time. just the fingers. no mouth.
shut up. stop. you can stop feeling guilty. your best tapping rate was .004 taps per millisecond. means your nerves have started degenerating.
private area house. it can wait.
he could've come up with sibo anywhere else in the hospital. you didn't need to come down here and screw with us.
we've gotta go.
you were 15 minutes late yesterday. i don't want you to develop bad habits.
you never showed up.
i wanted to find proof that you were slipping back into your self-destructive pattern. confirm you weren't worth my time. instead i found this. [he holds up a notebook.] you followed all of my instructions to the letter. probably better than any patient i have. so why are you the only one who can't show up for appointments?
janice.
that's understandable. it's human. and you need to get over it. now you show up on time tomorrow or you don't show up at all.
everything is fine. austrian syndrome.
guillain-barré fits. patient didn't notice the initial symptoms because it's no different than how she feels every day. her muscle weakness is the precursor to full paralysis.
can't. schedule's full. you're stuck with her. might as well get to know her. [he leaves. thirteen looks at janice.]
your mother. must've been horrible watching her die.
she dropped out.
not health-related. she just wants to drop out.
she didn’t say. and i only break into the houses of very special patients to understand them better. [she smiles]
no rigidity. no cog wheeling. so absolutely i’d call that good.
your clipboard.
hey. thank you for the gift. i really appreciate it.
is she okay?
and?
which is why i didn’t prescribe will power. i prescribed antacids. if she can’t handle that she’d have to leave the trial anyway.
no.
[very angry] no i’m not acting like house which is exactly why i don’t need to apologize. i’m not being cruel. i’m not being manipulative.
and it worked.
look. i know seeing the ghost of your christmas future is tough but the only way i can help her is by making sure she follows her regimen not by becoming her life coach.
i meant to. started reading this file and just couldn’t put it down. let me ask you… that patient who dropped out the one i told you about?
you think i should pursue it more?
well i just thought if there’s an easy way to make the people who drop off come back then why not?
really? i thought the zombie trials were all completed during phase two.
look. a friend of mine has this disease.
mrs. burke? we are conducting another trial in tandem with yours. same drug lower dose. the nausea will be less. i did some checking. i can switch you. here's the forms if you want back in.
down at the party.
my christmas gift to you.
yeah well that's my christmas gift to myself.
we should.
the american college of rheumatology would disagree. there are specific diagnostic criteria.
i’ll help with the home.
there’s nothing in there but a pharmacy's worth of pain meds. this guy makes house look like a christian scientist. he’s also more compliant than house. kept all the inserts had daily pill dispensers to make sure he didn't mix them up. [he looks at the car.] i guess if you're gonna go out in a car this ain't a bad one to choose.
i certainly wouldn't know. ever since we kissed you've been avoiding me.
judging by the fact that he owns a body shop and [holds up a respirator] one of these i’d say he knew not to inhale. busy tonight? we can get some dinner.
so making out okay. meals too intimate?
why? because we work together?
that makes a lot of sense.
i thought you'd gotten past that. that’s why you agreed to the drug trial. you can't give up on life because —
where are you going?
he’s not answering his cell either.
up till now his heart and lungs were the only places he didn't have pain.
i promise i’m only holding your hand to check for choreiform movement. i’m getting absolutely no intimacy from it.
i know. that’s the problem. there’s 80 reasons we shouldn't date but you can't shut everyone out. you’re gonna need help support.
and i’ll bet they're cherishing every traumatic minute he has left wouldn’t trade him for the healthiest guy in the world.
[simultaneously] yeah.
his intestine must be damaged. the air's leaking into his body.
do an angioplasty on the superior mesenteric and find the other blockages before he has another cardiac arrest.
we did till we diagnosed it. we found intestinal edema and air in the blood vessels. pain was vascular.
his blood pressure was uneven. thirteen and kutner are doing an angio.
what about a glycogen storage disease like mcardle's? it explains the pain. plus there's plenty of muscle cells in the wall of the intestine.
what?
i don't know what you're —
i don't make the schedule and if i did i wouldn't use it as a social lubricant. and this is the first i’ve heard of janice improving at all. so hey thanks for the good news.
house the kid's in excruciating — [he’s talking to house’s back.]
fabry disease might be able to cause central and peripheral pain.
something has to.
opioid induced pain.
this is lunacy. you’re torturing this guy on a hunch.
are you suggesting i got thirteen in that trial because of some personal —
how’s it false if the trials are showing results?
we didn't. house did.
epilepsy doesn't cause chronic pain.
you’re here early.
iv’s leaking a little. it’s no big deal. i’ll be right back.
no.
rita the spike on dr. hadley’s iv bag wasn't pushed in all the way. don't want any dosing errors. [he takes a tissue and cleans the medication off his hand in the manner approved of by toxicologists everywhere.]
what?
i didn't smell anything.
never thought i'd see the day you were taking orders from cameron.
cameron’s gonna mark her territory. she'll probably over compensate and destroy you.
that means it's probably something wrong with the blood itself — leukemia von willebrand's.
drop it house. we're seeing each other end of discussion. anything else isn't relevant.
it's her platelets looked like they had bite marks in them.
we disagree you blame our relationship. we agree you blame our relationship. don't you see a problem there?
other than that cameron said you can’t.
this trial i'm running — the drug really seems to be working.
i'm not sure what i'm gonna do about thirteen.
she's on the placebo.
accidents happen. i found out.
i don't want to tell her. i want to put her on the real drug.
her trial results are already compromised just from the fact that i know. as long as she's wasting her time why not give her something that might actually help her?
one minute at 39 degrees.
you all right?
let's not get ahead of ourselves. you might not even be on the real drug.
you ever hear the term placebo effect?
good.
got a sec?
that's not what this is. every time a decent person comes in you set out to prove that they have brain damage.
you don't need to. i've been here five years. i can hear your thoughts from my apartment.
move onto another organ.
no plaques on the left hemisphere.
i need to talk to you about remy.
thirteen.
she's on placebo.
or i respect your opinion and i want to hear what comes to your mind.
i was mistaken. [he starts to leave.]
[turning back] it looks promising reducing symptoms.
no.
thank you.
the surgeons were able to drain the pleural effusions. the patient's breathing on her own but she's still pretty weak.
[to thirteen] you gonna help or what?
um i think these kids are already spoken for.
but i thought because of your illness —
you drool.
she hasn't suffered from copd. she doesn't smoke. she hasn't been scuba diving. o2 sats are low even after chest tube insertion.
people have the right to be happy.
horrible diseases exist. it doesn't mean people should give up recreational anything.
you can't live your life big picture. you've gotta look out for yourself and the people you care about.
could be pulmonary fibrosis.
you said that would be stupid.
there's nothing to know. (he leaves)
(holding up a card with pictures of a train a duck and a piano) got it? (thirteen nods and he holds up another card of pictures) good?
you okay?
where's the pain front or back?
a sharp pain or more of a throbbing —
true but i can get you an mri.
okay. first card.
you can't remember?
you okay?
there's a tiny spot on the caudate lobe. could be a granuloma. (he hands the mri scan to house) erodes into the hepatic artery causes the bleed.
again?
i told you i didn't —
because she turned her head?
look straight ahead.
you see that?
damn.
no and yes. as far as they're concerned you're on the placebo. i found out last week. the trial was getting positive results... so i switched you.
that's it?
hey!
(turning on the light and waking her up) dr. miller? i'm sorry. the test was negative. so i'm gonna take you off — what happened to your head?
(grabbing a tissue) you were scratching it in your sleep. (he dabs at the bloody spot on her head with the tissue) you scratched right through your skull. this is brain matter. need some help in here!
could be plaques. ms would explain possibly the lungs.
you want to talk about your headaches?
you went off the drug but the headaches are worse. you need an mri.
those pills have codeine in them? you're taking twice the indicated amount.
you have worsening headaches loss of peripheral vision and a long history of pretending bad things aren't happening. you really think this is just about my hurt feelings?
(speaking from the control room) i'm sorry. i figured... only one of us needed to go out on a limb. i thought i could help you.
(looking at the monitor) oh god.
(waiting for the elevator) she's got a tumor in her optic chiasm.
i'm going to the drug company.
they have records on hundreds of patients. i can ask them for access find out if other patients developed tumors and how they were treated.
stop taking it? yeah. she tried that yesterday.
(getting on the elevator) i want to be able to tell her this happened to other people and they're fine now.
i'm not gonna lie to her.
so i spoke with house. he thinks we should just —
(squatting down to look at her leg) what happened?
what do you mean?
thanks. i'm not beating myself up enough already over this. entering the left common carotid.
i knew that giving her the drug would be bad for me if i got caught. i never thought it would be bad for her. nobody else was having adverse reactions.
i thought about it.
you're not any other patient.
house told you to say that didn't he?
you think he's right?
i'm sorry.
dr. schmidt. it's eric foreman. uh actually the trial isn't going too well.
i broke protocol. her results are no longer admissible to the trial. they don't have to do anything. anyone else gets a tumor they'll put a warning on the label.
they'll come after me if i attempt to participate in any more trials.
that wasn't your locker was it?
shut up.
what?
the drug trial is over. i’m out she's out.
everybody has to put up with their boss's stupid stunts.
house doesn't listen to hr. cuddy will let him fire us before she fires him and i don't want another job.
just because i don't want to be unemployed doesn't mean i'm codependent.
you know what? you're right.
no i wanna stop a stupid stunt. house doesn't want either one of us to quit. he wants this. he's got two lab rats in a maze and thrown in one piece of cheese.
nothing.
and neither of us is quitting.
you were fine with chase and cameron dating. you obviously don't actually have an issue —
how long are you gonna keep this up? we know you're not —
when my mistake blew up you did everything to keep me from contacting the drug company.
fine.
i get a letter of recommendation from cuddy and find a new job.
house is right. our relationship did affect my judgment.
not like this one.
what's that gonna accomplish? don't worry. i'll be fine. we'll be fine.
go ahead.
i'll be home early. (she gives him a quick goodbye kiss and leaves)
i assume you've heard.
i'm not asking you to override him. i'm asking for a letter of recommendation.
i can't get a decent position at another hospital without a recommendation.
i didn't know you were looking.
why would you —
it's been less than two days. give up on me that fast? you get a job behind my back?
i said i would handle this.
wow. i guess house knows me better than you do. too bad i don't go both ways.
i want my job back.
i'm suggesting you quit and i stay which is exactly what you suggested last night.
find another one. only took you eight hours to find that one.
you're overreacting. we'll talk about this later.
and you're not being controlling right now?
house shut up.
you never wanted to take that other job. you never wanted to save me. you wanted to offer to save me so you wouldn't feel guilty. you knew i'd say no. that's why you're so mad right now.
we didn't find any tumors.
so your explanation doesn't depend on us being major morons just morons?
it takes too long.
treatment is surgery. we can't open him up without confirmation.
my position is you're wrong.
you know i’m a fan of those heels.
(tying his tie in front of the mirror) like house is going to find out we faked our breakup because of your shoes? (thinking) go with the boots.
severe pelvic pain started during a basketball game could be dehydration.
still it feels chronic.
right boy with girl genes; i’m sure you’re the first doctor brilliant enough to check for a uterus. he could have complications from the surgeries on his penis that can cause pelvic pain.
could be drugs toxins an infection?
it happens.
it was never an issue.
heart’s still working that means synapsis is still firing we just need to get a message through.
amyloidosis with systemic involvement.
the guy pops’em like candy i’m surprised it hasn’t happened before. you miss sleeping with women?
simple question.
i’ll check under the bed.
so your saying if you don’t have pink bubble gum for a while that one day you’re going to chase down the ice cream truck?
kutner said the silver lining of our breakup was i wouldn’t be dumped for a girl. (talking about their search) there’s nothing in here either seems like we’re wrong about this kid having drug or alcohol —
earlier today right before —
huh! either it’s a big coincidence or their jerking us around. they know.
no this is good. house only has two ways to handle us going out he jerks us around or he fires us. he chose option a; this is good.
if he’s faking you think he’s going to come clean because you said his name?
(quietly to thirteen) that is sweet that you’re worried about house.
i get house wanting to jerk me and thirteen around but you guys?
how’d he know?
(to kutner) you figured it out?
then house doesn’t know.
you noticed this but house didn’t?
he’s not generally smarter than you; he’s always smarter than you. unless?
house is on heroin.
it’s why his lungs stopped its why he ok’d the mri its why he missed things he wouldn’t ordinarily miss.
he’s there isn’t he?
we're on our own.
he's fine. he's just not here.
she didn't say. she just told me i was in charge until further notice. so if we add bloody vomit to our patient's list of symptoms.
nothing that would help us with this patient.
why?
we can. i have. he's not answering. put the patient on proton pump inhibitors. if he gets better it's zollinger-ellison; if not it's scleroderma.
zollinger-ellison doesn't fit better. you don't want it to be scleroderma because that means he's gonna die.
not the ones whose family you've ruined. i don't think that you do. it's not your fault.
you were trying to help. (he hugs her)
the heels. very nice.
you okay?
got some good news. patient's scleroderma is responding to the anti-inflammatory meds. his ast level's dropped a bit.
next time just say that.
uh... 185 i think.
what else could it be from? he's been off the antibiotics for a while. proton pump inhibitor's wouldn’t —
testosterone wouldn't help his liver function.
but not in kidneys damaged by scleroderma.
you're back. good. we noticed a drop in ast levels. it's not from the anti-inflammatory meds.
which rules out scleroderma.
so we're okay?
(holding out a file) cameron brought this up from the er.
no. no trauma but he does have frontal lobe disinhibition. just like gage.
(smiling) nothing.
i think he understands.
(laying nick down on the mri table) house isn't here.
i hope you know your pistons are second to none.
you sure? you looked upset.
you've never been called attractive?
(laughing) that's what attractive means. it means i'm attracted to you sexually.
it could. it never does. it's what women choose to hear not what men say.
(speaking into the microphone) nick do you vote the same way as your wife?
look at that. (pointing to the screen) there's a spot in the cingulate gyrus that's not lighting up.
could be neurosarcoidosis. at least it's treatable.
i find your strong attachment to a working democracy to be extremely sexy.
ekg says heart's fine. it's gotta be the kidneys. i need to get him on dialysis.
he's on dialysis and he's stable.
the cbc showed normal white blood cells.
there are dozens of congenital conditions that fit our parameters. we can't spend time gene testing for all of 'em especially when we're only guessing it's congenital.
what kind of infection? it could be anything; staph aureus tuberculosis strongyloides…
the infection's gone but the damage the infection did; you'll have to live with.
the brain stem controls the body's involuntary systems. the slightest mistake could kill you. even if you survive you may never be able to breathe on your own again. you may never—
i know this seems like a lot to deal with right now. but people have adapted to living with all kinds of neurological deficits.
your heart's beating. first hurdle passed. now we need know if you can breathe for yourself. (he slowly pulls out the ventilator tube)
doesn't make sense. we removed the problem.
temperature's 94.5
(to the nurses) get me a heating blanket.
v-tach. get me the paddles. (a nurse wheels in a defibrillator and audrey leaves) clear.
echo says his heart is structurally fine but his temperature is still dropping. he's headed for hypothermia.
what causes brain damage and nosebleed and involves the lungs heart and kidneys?
it's not cancer. normal psa normal blood smear colonoscopy normal. do a full body scan.
house isn't here.
feel free to send him an im.
there's a small abdominal aneurysm.
there's a density in the liver. could be a vascular malformation.
we can only spot them with angiography. we'll have to do targeted scans with contrast and then embolize each one.
it doesn't explain the organ failure or the brain damage.
pseudomonas infection.
house.
listen. [house comes out and takes the stethoscope.] soft breath sounds. means it's bronchospasm. can't fake that.
bronchitis.
lungs were clean on the ct. dogs can be trained to predict diabetic comas epileptic seizures; they can smell cancer. it is possible there's something in this cat.
maybe the cat didn't predict anything. might have caused the deaths.
yeah it could be cat scratch fever or visceral larva migrans. maybe he didn't kill everyone at the nursing home but it may be killing morgan.
severe acid reflux.
we still have a human patient right? airborne allergens possible?
lungs may be more sensitive.
i also heard the lung sounds too taub. you saying i screwed up?
were they here when we got here?
just clean it.
yeah that'll happen. he won't just continue to let our room smell like cat pee. i'll clean it next time.
how do we know the urine is still brown?
if we've ruled out everything that can make the urine brown what if it just looked brown? if the green dye never left her system what plus green makes brown?
[standing with his hands in his pockets not searching] say puss one more time. it's the sixth puss that really does it.
patient must have cushing's. we have to figure out whether it's based in…
mri‘s aren't telling us if the cushing's in her adrenals or her brain.
acth is 11.7. it's too close to tell. we can't treat the wrong organ 'cause that won't solve anything. she could have a cortisol storm. could kill her.
what'd he say?
you're playing pranks and this woman could be dying.
she's weak possibly dying.
so it's the brain. that means the next question is whether to remove the pituitary right now…
you okay?
next to the trauma the most likely causes of a sudden onset of locked-in syndrome are basilar artery stroke and brain hemorrhage.
certain circulatory diseases.
lft's are normal.
how much do you drink? a six-pack a day?
blinking and eye movements are controlled by a small cluster of nerves just millimeters from the biopsy site.
brain biopsy revealed severe damage to the myelin sheath. question is why?
bought my first girlfriend a necklace. it was silver. it cost 180 bucks… had to save for six months. she hated it.
never bought another girlfriend jewelry again. until dr. hadley.
same thing. she didn't even wear it.
if she doesn't like it she doesn't like it. apparently i suck at picking out jewelry but least have the guts to tell me.
means it's not cadmium poisoning.
lp stands for lumbar puncture. we use this needle to collect fluid from your spine.
you're going to feel some extreme pressure in your back.
…your chest sort of in the fetal position.
…the best angle into your spine.
pull the needle out.
[looking at lee’s face] call a code.
he's back.
so we should try —
if there's still tightness in your chest it's expected.
why is he saying no three times? you only asked one question.
no bruises no rashes no cuts.
liver plus eye plus kidney… most likely sclerosing cholangitis.
she was wearing the bracelet?
because you weren't.
if you don't like it it's fine. it's not a big deal.
the bracelet's real.
no apnea because no sleeping problems when she’s sleeping. she spent the last six months caring for her husband who’s dying of heart failure.
could have picked up melioidosis from one of the islands.
treatment worked. charlotte’s breathing’s back to normal. she’s being discharged.
kutner. it’s foreman and thirteen.
if you wanna climb a fifth floor fire escape…
kutner.
[checks the computer] there’s nothing on his calendar. his pager’s still here.
i need an ambulance at 410 willis. apartment 5-c. 28-year-old male. single gun shot wound to the right temple.
alert princeton plainsboro. have a trauma unit ready. his pupil’s dilated. his head’s swollen.
let me try.
his parents were shot right in front of him.
not to someone who actually cares.
we should have picked up on something.
that’s what you wanna tell yourself.
maybe we should pass this file over to another doctor.
could be a metabolic disorder acidosis.
taub went to run the treatment. we’d like to go see kutner’s parents.
must have been scary going through a trauma and then being handed off to a new family.
wish we did. we all —
house! go back to the hospital.
mr. and mrs. kutner. they caused kutner’s death. why not charlotte’s?
so what now? you gonna insult your way through his rolodex till you find someone with an answer?
i know i should have called. i just need some time.
i’ve worked through a lot of bad stuff in my life. always done it solo.
i’m sorry.
the guy cares about the environment. that makes him a nutcase?
see? not a nutcase. [thirteen smiles at him.]
the only kind of mothering house wants involves a bullwhip leather diapers and a credit card.
sparring with the police and chaining yourself up for days can cause stress. stress screws with the heart and arteries. carotid atherosclerosis could cause a loss of balance.
no gi problems. no hyper-salivation.
he said find a way. and you did.
that why you’re here?
no it isn’t. even if house was messed up by kutner’s suicide it wouldn’t matter. he already thinks life is nasty brutish and long. and misery helps his diagnostic skills. all of which you know so… why are you here?
if you want kutner’s place it’s fine with me. i could use someone else with the stones to stand up to house. but you’ve gotta know it’s gonna blow up your relationship with chase.
with chase. to be with house.
what are you doing?
this could still be neurological. you could cloud his mental status.
that mean we don’t need to do the lp.
house.
sorry… parentally challenged.
no his neck.
it’s definitely not ms. crunching sounds were caused by an air leak between his lungs.
he was protesting a lumber mill last fall. sarcoid’s been linked to pine forests.
the steroids ought to get him breathing normally again.
[on speaker phone in doug’s room shouting above the screaming] excruciating pain in his left leg! acute onset about ten minutes ago.
bone density’s normal.
whatever broke it had to do it from within.
brittle bones wouldn’t cause hiccups. plus we’d have seen abnormal coloring in the sclerae.
since when does bone cancer cause hiccups? [he plays with the empty pill bottle.]
or it’s not cancer.
you want to blast him with chemo for a cancer we don’t even know he has?
hold on. [he’s scrubbed up.]
i just want you to get a bone biopsy before you insert the pin.
house is prepping him for chemo. thought it might be worth checking for cancer before pumping him full of poison.
cameron isn’t on the case anymore.
the nuclei were all normal. bone cells were well differentiated. no dysplasia means no cancer.
we hope so although it also means we still have no idea what caused the break. how does it feel?
no. but it’s probably just residual bleeding from the surgery. we should be able to… [he finishes lifting off the bandage. the incision is bleeding quite a lot. foreman rushes to the other side of the bed and lifts the blanket from doug’s other leg. it is mottled.] i need two units of ffp right away!
he’s bleeding out.
it’s gotta be except it’s not. the biopsy was negative.
and if he doesn’t have cancer we could cause one or destroy his immune system altogether. the guy could die from an infected toenail.
that’s permanent and risky. we don’t even know what if anything is wrong with his heart.
usual suspects are insomnia which he doesn’t have; migraines which he doesn’t get; and head trauma which didn’t show up on the ct.
no doubt it. he was a sperm donor. medical records couldn’t be cleaner.
starting five hertz. house made it through that entire differential without mocking our patient for not having a cochlear implant.
he’s deaf. it’s not an identity it’s a disability.
going to 20. anything i can simulate with a $3.00 pair of earplugs is not a culture. no sign of seizure. temporal lobe activity is still clean.
we’re using iodine dye to track the blood flow in your neck and arm.
house what are you doing?
how did you know about the neuropathy?
enough with the riddles.
could be increased icp from a brain tumor.
you just said—
so meningitis was a coincidence?
you know what a broken cowboy is? [she looks at him] it was on house’s list of requirements.
[smiling at her] why is house so into this bachelor party thing?
he needs a reason to be into anything.
house could be trying to tempt chase into cheating. break them up.
i think house is into cameron being into him. marrying chase would shatter that fantasy.
so you’re okay with house getting chase smashed enough to make a stupid mistake?
you think she can do the broken cowboy?
we brought pictures.
taub’s right. it’s not cancer.
yeah. you did something stupid. quick better mock someone.
not without muscle weakness.
we checked his eyes before the surgery. no papilledema.
go ahead. start him on ribavirin for epstein-barr.
the symptoms came on too hard and too fast. sarcoidosis is progressive.
devic’s?
ekg normal sinus normal intervals. his heart’s fine.
or we were wrong about the heart.
the patient just had brain surgery. a stress test could cause a brain bleed and kill him.
you’re not doing this. you haven’t been sleeping—
and if i let you risk our patient’s life testing an organ we already tested we accomplish neither. run a thyroid panel.
you were right about the heart. should have listened to you.
not with a normal platelet count.
should do a vq scan see if his lungs are clear.
patient’s responding to interferon. looks like i can retire as department figurehead.
i paid 50 bucks for this.
one more drink.
huh?
house you in there?
chase went into anaphylactic shock from the stripper’s body butter or something.
one of the residents had an epi pen so he’s fine but we’re taking him to the hospital to be safe.
long story.
[takes films and handles them awkwardly] uh enlarged lymphs could—
eonsinophilic pneumonitis could actually make sense.
we need to hear seth speak.
i need him to breathe out as i pull out the tube.
i’m sorry. we were wrong. i need to uh suction out your throat before we reintubate. [just before he inserts the suction tube he stops and inspects seth’s mouth and teeth.] your son smoke?
tobacco stains on his teeth.
used to.
but not chewing tobacco might. taub was right. it’s sarcoidosis. the tobacco releases toxins. those toxins suppressed his immune system. once he quit chewing the absence of those toxins kicked a dormant condition into hyper-drive.
[in the hall when house opens his door] put the phone on the receiver send the hookers home and get dressed. we’ve got a case.
twenty-one year old star of the new york ballet collapsed on stage.
cuddy said get your ass in or you’re fired.
okay. [he leaves]
er ruled out the obvious. white count and temp are normal so no pneumonia.
house?
we just said the tests were negative. you think we should…
[entering] patient’s not responding to the antibiotics. still can’t breathe.
we can’t do a bronc because her lungs are still collapsed.
that’s basically water boarding.
everything okay?
when we inject the water it’s going to feel like you’re drowning but it will be over in a few seconds.
[to taub who has moved to the head of the bed] hold her shoulders down a little. [he swabs her throat with povidone.] ready? [he starts the tracheotomy] you’re doing great. here comes the liquid. [she starts to cough and sit up.] taub.
her skin is sloughing off faster than we can replace it with the artificial skin.
the ana was negative.
you want us to ignore the fact that she’s lost 80% of her skin?
we can’t just ignore the skin. it’s obviously the most significant and dangerous symptom right now.
toxic epidermal necrolysis. that’s a one in a million reaction.
[in the hall with wilson] couldn’t. the artificial skin was too thin. she’d bleed out. why were you talking to the patient?
did you just check with wilson again?
last mass about a centimeter to your right. [a machine beeps]
a short burst of flutter. we’re almost done.
she doesn’t like yours?
wow.
you gotta let her do it. if you don’t you’ll be stuck with her forever.
she married a dying guy. she has issues. you cannot leave her ever for any reason because then you’re not just the guy who left her; you’re the guy who killed her kids. [a machine starts beeping rapidly] that’s not a good rhythm. get out.
why is wilson here?
we didn’t find cancer.
tried it. didn’t work. is cuddy making him oversee?
then you’re making him oversee your choices. you don’t trust yourself. why?
and we only have three minutes until there’s brain damage. sure about this?
keep going.
what’s that by the aorta?
that’s a shadow. two centimeters…
it was a shadow on her heart.
uhhh. you’ll wanna check with wilson?
could be an abscess infection. explains why it’s invisible in the blood. it’s doing its damage behind closed doors sealed off.
too devoted? you think he feels guilty?
and it would look like a shadow.
[at house’s desk] yep. boyfriend has gonorrhea.
he’s not too happy about it. he insists he’s never cheated must have gotten it from her.
timing would fit. he’s got no symptoms and she’s dying.
he’s not hanging out in her room anymore. [house thinks] what does it matter? you were right. we’re prepping her for surgery.
house you made a brilliant deduction about her heart.
[in penelope’s room] tell him the infection’s made her septic. we can’t remove the abscess until we get her bp up and it’s not responding to fluids it’s not…
we could try high-dose dopamine. it’s a vasoconstrictor. it’ll close the blood vessels so she won’t bleed out.
and if we don’t use the dopamine it’ll implode.
it sounded that way.
we know.
forget it. the boyfriend doesn’t want to talk to her at all. [he stands.]
home. the case is over.
you’re dissing the right hemisphere?
right brain’s also more aware of the present moment our place in the universe.
no good skin turgor. not orthostatic.
if you’re right the two halves have begun sending messages again but it’s too early in the process for him to pick up on it. but we can test for it.
keep your eyes focused on the plus sign. any image that appears on the far right will only be seen by your left brain. and any image on your far left will only be seen by your right brain.
just start by saying the words.
you’re not saying the word.
could you draw a picture of what you think the word might be.
no communication.
scott why are you standing?
a few more minutes.
points to a clotting issue. clots would explain all his symptoms. why aren’t we in the office?
just agitating the pancreas can cause clotting. and you want to do it to a guy whose problem is clotting?
he might actually be okay with that.
how long’s it gonna take?
hey. you and cameron. i’m sorry.
[yelling from or] bp’s dropping.
no sign of cancer. bp’s 90 over 60.
systolic’s 80.
give him a dopamine drip.
get to your point. we’re a little busy here.
we echoed the heart. no clots.
[to chase] we have to get his bp stable.
systolic’s 70.
thyroid function tests were normal.
