if it's not where she went maybe it's the work hours. could be amphetamine abuse. she's probably popping them like breath mints.
are you okay?
are you lying to us… because it's none of our business?
are you deflecting now?
[approaches] we can't do a ct scan.
we don't need a ct scan. we don't need house.
one of the routine pre-procedure tests was positive.
the one that if it's positive would explain a hormone imbalance that could screw with heart rate and blood flow.
you want me to call the father and let him know?
how recently were you... needy?
nothing.
it's actually nothing.
and a bleed should speed her heart rate.
immunoglobulin a deficiency.
if she's had beta hcg injections they can cross-react with...
house is bluffing.
but her heart problem won’t go away and now something's wrong with her brain.
anxiety stroke tourette's could all cause eye blinking.
stop the tape. zoom in. on the anastomosis that little bump.
could be a ganglioma which is why chase shouldn't have ignored it.
how do you get coal out of a mountain when it's someone else’s mountain? if we don't have house it doesn't mean we can't think like house.
you don't dig down. you go in from the side. we insert a lighted scope through the rectum move the intestine till we find the ganglioma then push it to the surface. where we see the light we cut.
switching on the light.
familial mediterranean fever.
well we can't all be right.
which means arrhythmia massive pulmonary embolus or cerebral bleed.
five organ systems hit. would need five infections for it to somehow slip by screening.
that wouldn't help us narrow down what —
he paid for your lunch liked monster trucks and was your conscience. autoimmune disease.
he didn't die of cancer. his head got chopped off in an industrial accident.
[entering] donor's history came up clean.
did he just laugh?
coffee repairman wears argyle socks? [taub looks]
the donor has no history of unusual infections no international travel in the 12 months —
credit card receipts showed no —
there is no girlfriend.
high school sweetheart is married to his best friend.
does that pi guy mean we don't have to break into people's homes anymore?
could the donor have had two things wrong?
perforated intestine. if this thing started as normal bacteria living in the intestines but got into a blood vessel through a vascular anomaly in the bowel wall then they would affect every organ through the blood stream. it screws up everything. for everyone.
the anomaly would have to be intermittent or they all would have died within a day.
colonoscopy was clean.
the opening would have to be open shortly before death.
what if there was a way around that?
not around death around death as an obstacle. we need to see his colon at work.
without a living system there's not enough pressure to get fluid all the way up. life we can't create yet but pressure's easy. we use the same high-pressure water jet we use to test cardiac workload. i mean he's not gonna be awake to tell us where it hurts —
it's kinda stuck.
it's adjustable. [he reinserts the tube.] it's working.
the endoscope's bowing. push on the stomach?
those are normal bodily fluids.
put the pressure back on. [foreman does.] that's the end. no leaks.
that's just dark 'cause i'm at the end.
maybe a little more pressure? [he starts fidgeting with the machine again.]
nothing fits.
no we don't. better is better. who cares why?
there's no record of arthritis.
my name's in the guinness book.
i didn't do it to get the babes.
can't lucas —
can lead poisoning cause visual agnosia?
you think house really got something on your wife?
wait your wife's doing the doorman in your bed and they're sweating all over the sheets that you paid for and —
how do you know?
in college my friends and i came up with an inverse-square law.
the girls who you think are the most inhibited… straight arrows… they're the ones you hook up with.
i'm saying if my wife was a slut i'd wanna know.
his place was clean.
none of these drugs nor the drugs that they're derived from are known for causing seizures.
ridiculous that they let people take potentially dangerous drugs for money.
she is having an affair?
which is the third drug?
if we don't know which —
just start cutting.
we don't have a choice.
his face is so swollen it squeezed his tear ducts shut. we've been lubricating his eyes by hand. we started him on steroids iv and cream to reduce the swelling but it's having limited effect.
that's ridiculous. if it is the drugs they're dangerous and they've already caused —
we can rule out the clinical trial drugs at this point. his system has been completely cleaned twice. unless the drugs found a hiding place under the stairs…
here it is. circle of willis the vessels are narrow.
this might burn a little bit. charging to 60. clear.
going again charging to 120.
house clear.
found a long qt interval. i think it's romano-ward syndrome.
beta blockers don't work. his heart can't handle an icd.
pete best was actually a great drummer but i assume you mean the patient needs a cardiac sympathectomy?
your mother called — twice.
her messages sounded kind of urgent.
seriously you told her?
you have sars. i'm wearing a mask. it's a big deal. cut 'em some slack.
that's what all this stuff is for. we're gonna need the names and numbers of everyone you came in contact with here and in china. flight numbers dates…
so far he's fine.
[on the intercom] she's tachycardic. get a crash cart in here!
her liver's failing. it's not sars.
no signs of a tumor or venous malformations. nothing that could cause —
drugs and alcohol wouldn't —
nicole?
we have these two categories: inside and outside. patients stay inside. then when they're better we let them go outside.
make a fist. [to a curious woman passing by] such a beautiful day we thought we'd do all our doctoring outside.
belonging's overrated. i was adopted by a white family when i was nine. i like being different. the view's better from the outside looking in.
this is why we prefer inside.
[approaching] took a six-pack of ffp to stop the oozing.
plus schistocytes on her smear means it's dic which means she's got cancer.
normal wbc makes that less likely.
house already did an ultrasound.
nicole lie still. this'll only take a few seconds.
she was adopted when the parents thought they couldn't have kids. then they had three more. she took the message as thanks for playing but we have our real children now.
she's an addict. something went wrong.
i'm not saying the parents screwed up.
i think we may need to call house again.
what are the traits of a steamroller? powerful. maybe pancreatic cancer.
the steamroller means potholes —
you figured out she's got gallstones?
you said steamroller.
you're not nervous. it's the dts isn't it?
a phenobarbital coma will not only allow us to inject the cyst it'll treat the dts. when she wakes up she won't be in withdrawal.
let's make you healthy. then we'll worry about making you sober.
looks like an atrial myxoma but the ultrasound images are a little grainy so it's hard to tell. [house is thinking]
atrial myxoma is more likely.
we don't have one.
she actually didn't get sick till she tried lifting it that second time. i'm guessing the weight changed.
the pins will be removed surgically and she'll be fine. we'll wake her from the coma after the operation.
she may not be as fragile as you think.
[shows them the x-ray] see this pin here? it's been pressing directly on her addiction center. it's not her fault. and it's definitely not your fault. she's not who you think she is.
blood clots could explain everything.
you moved?
spider bite doesn't explain anything unless the patient was actually bitten by a spider. (he stands up) i’ll do the exam.
distribution plant can't distribute if it's not getting deliveries. if her lungs are fine maybe the problem's in the supply line. airway collapse.
her throat's fine. we made her airway collapse but it's not collapsed.
chest ct confirmed multiple lung cysts one of which burst during the treadmill test.
or fast-moving langerhans.
that's great news… i think.
cavernous sinus thrombosis could cause absence seizures and memory loss. i'll take 7 to 14.
it's only great news if she wants it to be great news. house knows her better than any of us. [house has written “kutner” in the middle column.] i'd rather use a pseudonym.
could be some sort of narcolepsy.
there's usually genetic history.
some sort of environmental trigger.
says he didn't.
he has no reason to lie. he knows he's sick. his job doesn't drug test. no relationship. his daughter wouldn't find out.
it's gotta be systemic. hemorrhagic virus maybe?
dic?
no fever.
no weight loss.
no headache.
leukemia'd be obvious from the cbc.
i need you to hold still.
it's not a tan. means it's not leukemia.
chem panel confirms kidney failure end stage.
hemachromatosis?
even if we're right he's gonna need a kidney transplant.
she's 12.
i meant she's a minor and daddy has a conflict so we're gonna need cuddy's sign off.
if we don't give him a new kidney he's dead in a week. we have to transplant.
it narrows it down to any one of a dozen genetic disorders each of which takes more than a week to run.
they're… black?
agoraphobia a symptom?
pyroxene. pyro means fire…
seriously?
he was shot. girlfriend killed. he probably has post traumatic stress disorder. he doesn't believe in a just universe. he doesn't trust anyone. give him some honesty.
he punched out a fireman. we're doctors not bouncers.
partial small bowel obstruction.
how am i supposed to know where you're looking?
the whole thing's bloody. it's a guy with a hole in his body.
i will. and in fact i’ve never done this before because i went to med school not nurse school.
porphyria.
could be lymphoma.
organophosphates.
there where rose petals in the front entry.
ammonia and bleach makes chlorine gas.
16-year-old girl with fluid in her lungs. no previous trauma lung or cardiac issues. gram stain was negative. no bacteria no pneumonia.
she's an emancipated minor.
her parents died last year. no relatives. to avoid foster care she got a ged and got emancipated.
her history says she's not sexually active.
but not every teenager is having sex.
the girl's holding down a job makes her rent.
tox screen's clean.
16 doesn't automatically mean a risky lifestyle.
still a good idea to check your heart. something else could have damaged it. you find it hard being all on your own? having to do everything without —
that's not —
i meant it must be hard. no one there to back you up.
i was actually doing the i get it thing. i lost my parents when i was six. it doesn't go away. but it gets easier. you learn to deal.
you already got the worst news and survived. that's sorta the upside. (he looks at the frozen image on the monitor) your heart's healthy.
for your heart yeah but it also means we still don't know what's wrong.
bong means nothing. drugs are irrelevant.
even if she is: irrelevant. echo showed no heart damage.
i didn't screw up the echo.
the edema was acute. vasculitis makes more sense.
she builds her own furniture. you think she skips work because she's feeling a little weak? she needs steroids.
irregular heartbeat causes blood to back up behind the heart and into the lungs. the beta-blockers keep this from happening.
it's tricky. an arrhythmia can come and go.
we found the bong in your apartment.
extended drug use can damage —
that doesn't mean you didn't use it.
the other possibility is you have vasculitis. the treatment for that is steroids. if you've been using drugs if they've damaged your heart and i start you on steroids they could kill you.
(sighing wanting to believe her) i'll get the steroids. (he takes down the iv bag)
just calm down. (to the nurse) what happened?
sophia it's okay. we're here to help you.
she's not on beta-blockers.
we started her on haloperidol. she's stable. lab tests showed the delirium wasn't caused by a metabolic problem. means we still don't know what caused it.
i treated her based on the symptoms she presented.
she wasn't on steroids long enough for it to cause the delirium — it's a new symptom.
and arrhythmia. the psychotic break caused a surge of adrenaline but no irregular heartbeat. heart's not the problem. we're both wrong.
you didn't miss much. no spasms yet. nothing in the anterior or posterior cerebral arteries.
just a few more minutes. were your foster homes all around here or did you have to change schools?
(to sophia) my foster parents were great. i think most foster parents do it because they want to do something decent.
(watching the monitor closely) but that's odd. (to sophia) how'd you find out about your parents?
look at that.
not that. (to sophia) i forget did he come to your house or call you down to the station?
(to sophia) fmris tell us where the blood flow is. you were using your limbic region. it lights up when we use our imagination. it doesn't light up when we're telling the truth. your parents aren't dead are they? i risked my job put you on a different treatment —
then why lie about your parents?
no signs of spasm impeded blood flow or brain dysfunction. it's not prinzmetal’s. all the fmri showed is house was right. she was lying.
no sign in her bloodwork. could be lying about the rape.
yesterday i had no reason to doubt her. if she'd been honest with us from the beginning —
what's it?
factory lunch rooms aren't the cleanest places. coulda picked up e. coli.
no her sodium's normal.
magical lesions which appear out of nowhere.
syphilis. before penicillin the treatment was arsenic.
donor list turned up a partial match.
she may not last the week. partial's better than nothing.
if a better match turns up.
the fact that it makes sense doesn't make sense?
the guy's ready to kill for a diagnosis i can't think of a better doctor to be trapped in there with him.
it's house.
the shortest distance between stomach pain and insomnia is bad circulation. plus troubled breathing. could be a heart defect.
[looking at jason’s desk] he must have $6000 $7000 in unpaid medical bills.
there's no excuse for what he's doing but you've got millions of people thousands of dollars in debt because they're sick — at least one of them's gonna do something inexcusable. especially if it works.
found a picture of his mom. she's got a droopy eye fat face thick neck.
there are also classic signs of an adrenal problem.
[getting up and approaching the desk] histiocytosis x explains the lung involvement and —
even increased aggression and risk-taking.
what's cuddy doing in your office?
she's not on steroids. her program's all about getting in shape naturally — exercising eating right.
she has infomercials to sell her dvds. what? i'm up late a lot.
what about allergies? she goes jogging every morning. inhales car fumes during rush hour.
exercise-induced asthma actually fits.
not even breathing hard. o2 stats and lung capacity are still well within range.
you okay? trouble breathing?
we shocked her back to sinus rhythm. she's stable. test didn't set it off. her ekg was normal.
carcinoid tumor?
can a leaking breast implant cause joint pain?
got another patient. i set up an online second opinion clinic. people who don't like or trust their doctors e-mail symptoms. i can knock off four or five cases over lunch. clear two grand by e-mailing them back. ascending colon's clean.
only in nine states and this isn't one of them. legal notice spells out it doesn't replace doctor's visits. so there's no opportunity for malpractice.
it's no big secret. i guess i’m just not very chatty.
small intestine looks clean. moving into the pylorus.
actually house may sort of mind because i sort of set it up in house's name. nothing in the bile duct.
i mean it's dr. gregory house's second opinion clinic with medical advice direct from dr. gregory house.
house is never gonna find out.
that's blackmail.
that's her stomach? [the scan is on the screen.] it's the size of a shot glass.
her gastric bypass procedure could cause —
when she was obese she probably had type two diabetes. could've left her with permanent nerve damage.
sleep apnea explains —
apnea cuts off oxygen to the brain. the resulting neurological damage —
no but —
forget the bypass.
you said forget the —
but her intestines aren't. gastric bypass could cause malabsorption by creating a blind loop of bowel. it ulcerates during exercise. bacteria get loose in the bloodstream. migrate to the heart and lungs.
the boob lady e-mailed me again complaining of chronic fatigue now. she's convinced the implants are responsible.
i told her. she says something is and if i don't find out what she's gonna complain to the licensing board. [taub chuckles.] it's not funny.
it's gonna take about an hour to spin down the sample.
you don't know?
it floats.
what about all that scar tissue around the implant? could that be —
well i gotta tell her something.
yeah that's what she wants to hear she's sick and she's lopsided.
where would she have gone?
[turning off the treadmill] get off there. last time you exercised you had a cardiac incident.
you're running on a broken ankle.
she said she needed to use the bathroom.
alpha waves on the eeg ruled it out.
or early onset parkinson’s.
yep.
[to deedee] excuse me are you going up to the personnel floors?
i'm sure it's nothing.
he's actually downstairs.
if it is a staph infection.
maybe you should just let her have your office.
could be a botulinum reaction.
she probably used a lot of botox to tighten up her skin.
personal. i'll put it on vibrate.
deedee.
can you stop singing?
she's faking. it's a cry for attention.
right a rare neurological disorder is far more likely than a cry for attention. i mean nothing about this woman screams look at me.
could be an aneurysm. we've got to control her blood pressure. start her on a calcium channel blocker.
i can't tell house.
she's singing.
wilson's disease does.
anorexia.
biliary tumor causing paraneoplastic syndrome.
you'd do that for me?
means it's not guillain-barré.
you're surprised she's superficial? you're a plastic surgeon. this is the human condition.
every time you put someone under to bob their nose you were risking their life.
no singing. she's better.
no one was supposed to let my patient leave her bed.
said it was negative. said she was stable when he left her. should've found more time. we should've —
house this was really my —
house… [house starts chest compression.] house she's clearly dead.
she was dead.
we deserved it. i'll take down the website before —
[reaching for the file] uh… wilson’s disease.
[grabs the card] “greg made me think of you.”
you throwing that away?
handwriting’s kinda girly. you got an admirer house?
she’s an overachiever. high grades. she volunteers. she’s a big target.
what did you do to natalie?
how thoughtful of you. you got any left?
this was your idea?
right you just knew about it and let them do it.
get back to school. you better hope we got to her in time.
this place actually smells of evil.
[checking out the contents] to make you ask that question. can you really put a price tag on screwing with people?
yeah. he’d never do that. oh wait. he already did last year. remember the secret santa gift he got himself?
if it’s real then house really was freaked. if it affects him eventually it will affect us…
greg made me think of you.
[quietly] really?
[checking his beeper] we gotta go.
guess this means she didn’t try to kill herself.
effects on the lungs would have been immediate.
[checking file] uh pleasant valley.
maybe we shouldn’t have. forget toxic think allergic. severe mold allergy could cause liver failure respiratory arrest and encephalopathy.
we’ll find out what’s wrong. don’t worry. and uh i know some things are hard to talk about with your parents around but kids can be really mean. there are people you can talk to programs…
you’re in good spirits. you feeling better?
your parents brought it?
the jock-y kid in your class?
security?
you helped bully this little girl and completely refuse to accept responsibility. no way you came here out of compassion. that only leaves guilt. what did you do to her?
stop lying or i’ll take the drugs i found in your locker down to the cops you slimy little jerk. [taub takes his arm and they step away.]
this isn’t about me.
i wasn’t bullied.
let’s try this again. just tell me —
there’s nothing you could tell us that’ll help?
no. how do you know that?
why’d you stop?
you can go. [simon leaves]
there’s nothing structurally wrong with her heart. ekg echo electrolyte panel — all normal.
we appealed. too sick.
a couple of days at most.
seems healthy but it's too early to tell. she's in the hospital for observation for a few days but after that — [shrugs]
he's just a kid.
i gotta go.
jonathan.
it's uh... it's lawrence kutner.
i wanted to apologize. for all of the horrible stuff i did to you in high school. i'm sorry.
not ever? so if you were being burnt at the stake… and someone handed you a gun…
bp is down. we need to get him in trendelenburg position. [they lower the bed.]
he’s arresting.
means it's getting worse.
how’d you know he had —
what if it's a cancer syndrome like trousseau's? explains blood clots multifocal pain lack of obvious physical signs.
checking for cancerous masses in the lungs. so uh who do you know who committed suicide?
your mom? dad?
nope but categorically insisting there are no circumstances means you've got baggage — personal betrayal abandonment.
well it's people like me who don't do it. when your life sucks from the beginning there's nowhere to go but up.
okay. switching to high-res cuts of the abdomen.
there along his diaphragm.
this a bad time?
no trace of cancer in the patient.
if there's a blockage in the superior mesenteric artery it could be choking off blood flow to his intestine.
after we thread the catheter through his groin and into position the blood will start flowing freely again.
air bubble caused the pe and cardiac arrest.
he’s in a hyperbaric chamber. a dose of high pressure ought to chase the air out of his blood.
we’re gonna take your blood repeatedly. if the increased strain makes your arm hurt more you have a muscle abnormality.
with gene-replacement therapy with lifestyle changes we can reduce it.
sure no baggage at all. [to jeff] where’s the pain worst right now?
does it hurt more?
we're getting sued?
could still be peripheral. if multiple areas of disc disease —
chris carrick.
caddell and carrick. it’s not like we can chop off his head to see if the pain goes away.
lightning pain from syphilis.
we can't cure him so we're gonna torture him?
we’ll be injecting you with naloxone which will knock the opioids out of your pain receptors. if we're right your system will recalibrate within a few hours and most of the pain will be gone.
not if they're causing your pain.
that takes drugs too. we need to clear everything out of your system.
[joins taub preparing the meds] so it's not your parents. then it's your wife someone you were close —
[as taub administers the naloxone] it’ll be over soon.
looks like we shot the guys with the torches.
that selfish ass with the god complex who almost made the stupidest decision of his life — wasn’t your colleague was it? it was you.
cameron's in charge?
you're gonna destroy her aren't you?
you slept with foreman?
[to sarah] i'm impressed. you didn't even flinch.
where is your happy place?
it's a great thing you do.
if you ever meet our boss just yes or no answers okay?
don't worry we'll run some lab tests to find out which clotting factor is off and then —
must be one hell of a happy place.
itp fits. we should start her on methotrexate.
tbi will promote cancers kill her digestive tract.
it's premature reckless and potentially lethal.
then why don't we just do it?
then why don't we just don't do it?
no structural defects in her heart.
it wasn't really a nuclear procedure.
heavy metal toxin.
causing her heart to race.
and giving her another heart attack.
that's more of a yellow light isn't it?
didn't realize the nurses allowed any visitors in here.
i need to draw some blood. i had a crush on my teacher in fourth grade… and fifth.
i'll tell you what i'll close the blinds so the nurses don't ask questions. you can stay as long as you want. we should have the results in about an hour.
i know it's hard but you need to stay in there for three minutes.
tell me about jonathan. how'd you get him to come out of hiding?
i wanted to be a doctor from the time i was eight years old. never wanted to be a pediatrician though.
you can get out now.
i misdialed a phone number this morning. must be contagious.
so she has a small bladder.
the screwed up numbers and forgetting to pee points to her being a human being. the platelet dysfunction and cardiac arrest points to a pancreatic tumor.
or we could not cut into her brain. it's just her pancreas. we should do an ercp.
a pancreatic tumor is much more likely to kill her.
the number confusions six years ago. you don't think we have time for an ercp?
even magnified images of her hippocampal region nothing.
so can we cancel the biopsy?
common bile duct is clear.
oh god.
it's her lungs. house was right. o2 sat's down to 89.
do we have to tell him?
yes you predicted that her lungs would fail but the mri was negative for ms.
a pancreatic tumor could still fit. it explains the heart the blood and her lungs.
all we need is a more sensitive test. endoscopic ultrasound.
[adding his other hand to the pile] you were also proven wrong. why don't i get a second test?
[getting up to leave] let me know when cameron says yes to cutting off our patient's skull. i'll be doing the endoscopic ultrasound.
cameron actually said yes?
sawing off the top of her skull and placing electrodes on her brain is insane.
you're skipping steps because it's cameron. you haven't figured her out yet and you want to see how far you can push.
we should remove her spleen. splenic lymphoma explains the damaged platelets the heart the lungs.
cameron's letting him cut into our patient's skull based on nothing but dead bugs and someone else's runny nose.
how long until we can perform the splenectomy?
we should get her in there as soon as we can.
her blood pressure's in the tank. i hope she lasts two hours.
plenty of people live perfectly normal lives without —
it's not her brain.
you looked at her brain. you took off her skull. you found nothing.
she has a patent ductus arteriosis.
we have a case?
am i in trouble?
yes.
no pleural thickening. i can't believe she quit.
i saw a four-year-old with retinoblastoma on my oncology rotation. the cancer had eaten through her eye and into her brain.
i'm here because i want to help people.
(looking at the scan again) are those... increased interstitial markings?
shouldn't you be obsessing over who did this to you?
could be psychogenic. she made a big sudden change in her life. could be the result of a mental imbalance.
why do you have to quit to do it? if i want to do something i do it. if you can figure out a balance there's no burnout.
where's your cane?
it could still be psychogenic.
we've been paging you all night.
l’hermitte's sign could mean behcet's b-12 deficiency.
could be another demyelinating disease. why are you asking about foreman and not thirteen?
the spinal tumor wouldn't explain the liver or the lungs.
what's going on with everyone today?
(looking at the monitor) house was right about the hemangioma. looks fixable.
they're everywhere.
where are foreman and thirteen?
no. something weird is going on. it involves our colleagues — we should know. you want us to treat the patient tell us what's going on.
you always blab to watch people react. so not blabbing means you don't want us to react which can't be good. is thirteen's headache not just a headache? if i check with admitting am i gonna find her name?
have you thought about going to the drug company see if they can help?
this thing keeps growing there's other stuff in your brain you might need later on.
who cares? you're a hypocrite. you don't ask her if she wants to be on the drug but when there's a chance you could help her get better suddenly you're letting her call the shots? that's not being noble. that's saving your own ass.
cardiac tamponade. she's bleeding into her pericardium smothering her heart. syringe.
bp’s going back up. it's working.
we need to resect the vascular tumors stop the bleeding.
so we give up? just let her bleed out?
so the nurses gave her pads instead of tampons. is that diagnostically relevant?
you know something about this case you're not telling us?
or screw with a hallucinating priest.
(looking at daniel’s file) you lived in manhattan for three years. then a year in oregon 18 months in new mexico less than a year in wisconsin and now you've been living in trenton for the last six months.
the more we know about you the more likely it is we can help you.
seeing jesus makes you insane? a bit of an odd attitude coming from a priest.
allegedly.
allegedly.
if everybody lies that includes teenage boys.
you didn't mention that before.
which foot?
oh god.
your toe just fell off.
where are foreman and thirteen?
why'd you fire foreman?
they're good doctors.
you really think house is done with foreman?
or the hardship'll bring 'em closer together. she'll invite friends over for foreman to share. (checking with a co detector) no leaks in the heater.
not unless he was smoking them in a bell jar. and even if you know where the treasure is it can still be pretty hard to dig it up without a shovel.
how is he?
i was talking about foreman. is he really gonna leave?
why are you biting my head off? i was just wondering what he was gonna do.
looks like a heart attack.
three different symptoms three different clots?
where are you going?
(watching the monitor) god gave the church and the kid free will. their exercise of that free will hurt you. means you're just a victim of god's gift to mankind.
i'm sorry. this is gonna hurt.
no pain at all?
regional anesthesia is a new symptom.
usually worse. finding a fellow atheist always makes his day. think it's possible maybe god's testing your faith?
something's traumatizing one of the nerves that runs along your ribs. explains the chest pain and numbness. could also cause muscle atrophy.
why? what's wrong?
his heart rate's down. sensory loss is becoming more diffuse progressive muscle weakness — he's shutting down.
he'd be brimming with white blood cells.
that girls like rock bands.
they weren't a hair band. they were new romantics. the band already left?
hold still.
(to thirteen) he's obviously just jerking you around wants to see if you're serious. if you just stick it out i think he'll bring foreman back.
this coming from the relationship expert.
i don't think they're easy. that's why i think if you find something that could be good you should hang onto it.
we can't treat you until we know what it is.
we need to be sure. the antiretrovirals could fry his heart his liver his kidneys.
big of you.
you don't think he already got tested?
legally we can't inform sexual partners about stds.
you just want to rub the priest's face in it get him transferred again.
if you'd let us do a test we could stop treating you or you could stop lying.
bp's climbing. you feeling okay?
yeah he reacted by getting worse. means it's not aids.
that's the first thing i checked. ige levels are normal. could be some other genetic disorder.
on it.
er gave him fluids when he came in.
those conditions occur in intersex kids who are chromosomally xx or xy not xx and xy. parents recently started him on testosterone maybe there’s something —
you just said an mri was a waste of time.
i think there’s something wrong with house.
actually no one. he ok’d an mri just because the parents wanted to look for a blind uterus. there was no fighting no arguing he just went along.
he doesn’t think it is. house decided to humor these parents.
(to house) you’re okay with this?
that we’re considering a diagnosis unrelated to this kid being a shemale. assuming a coincidence like that would usually torture you but you’re completely unfazed.
(to foreman) bummer it didn’t work out with you and thirteen.
you guys seemed happy together. it’s probably for the best you know the bisexual thing and all.
no it never is until it is. this is thirteen. before you guys got together she was hooking up with a different girl every night. long term you really think you could compete with that?
(still in the conference room but watching through the glass) what’s going on?
i don’t remember you taking any vicodin today.
seriously or are you just deflecting?
his chest is still rising. he’s just screwing with me cause cuddy made me babysit.
house? (he gets out of the chair and moves toward house)
told you they were still together. (he turns toward taub with his hand out)
yes i’m a little slow; maybe someone should let me know when i should be insuited.
he probably does now that you felt her up during that last differential.
yes i get it; he’s generally smarter than me. can we please move on?
did he quit? did she suspend him?
she must've told you something.
can we at least call house?
you okay?
i saw some empty bottles in the team locker room.
it's phineas gage the most famous case study in medical history.
we're here for another test. sorry about that.
i'm not —
no nasal cancer. and no marriage either if our patient keeps saying everything that comes into his head without regard for the consequences.
luckily jerkiness is a temporary condition for this guy.
i agree with wilson. this guy's a harry potter. (house and wilson look at him questioningly) the sorting hat was going to put harry in slytherin based on his nature. he refused so he ended up in gryffindor through choice.
relax he also implied my bedside manner was a little off. you don't agree with that right?
no one's ever mentioned your nose before? you're a plastic surgeon.
it does.
you could ask for the truth.
or a congenital metabolic disorder.
so he's a late bloomer. his daughter has a neurological condition.
this can become either hot or cold. as soon as it starts to feel uncomfortable i want you to tell me.
yes what you're doing is very important. it's like the better you do the better we know your dad is. (kutner and audrey go into the control room) (to audrey) i'll start with heat.
inside he's still the same man.
(to marika) you okay? (to audrey) she should be feeling something by now.
you're burned. why didn't you tell me it started to hurt? (he turns off the machine and takes the sensors off of marika)
(to audrey) sorry.
we're taking you to do a thyroid reuptake scan. we think your —
it's a mild burn. since marika has a neurological disability like you we needed to make sure —
(feeling his forehead) you're burning up. and your lungs are full of fluid. we need to get it out. (he calls to the nurses) i need 200 milligrams of furosemide and two milligrams of morphine stat.
his temperature is 103.
we've got a history. he hasn't been out of the country.
no one at home is sick. no one at work is sick. there's no sign of ticks or mosquitoes.
eyes are a little red.
that's a good idea. this is going to take some time. it'll be pretty exhausting.
guy leads a boring life. they stay home a lot. no travel no exotic pets no nearby standing water.
no.
the dog marks his territory all over the living room. i asked what the odds were that he would have put down food or drink where the dog could reach. he said he put a glass of juice on the floor while he was fixing the television.
yes.
yeah. i'm thinking weil's.
your fever's down and your lungs are clearing.
we'd need to remove the damaged area in your cingulate gyrus but it's too close to the brainstem to risk surgery.
hey at least we can promise you it won't get any worse.
which means the brain damage is spreading.
house hates full body scans.
cyst in the pleura around the lungs.
we'll find out. (they leave)
his fibroma is secreting human growth hormone which acts like insulin lowering his glucose.
neurological symptoms and p? oh green pee. i get it. nice.
you okay?
you and house this morning the way you were arguing.
come on man. i'm just trying to help. we're friends.
i consider you a good friend even if we don't hang that much outside work.
you kinda were.
oh you were lying about the throat spray. that does make more sense. so why are you wasting taub's time?
what are you doing?
what money worries?
we could help out in there.
so you're in a good mood again. you need another speech about what a great friend i am?
you really lost all that money?
she married a guy in one situation and ended up with another. that's hard on anyone.
no i just meant she married this master of the universe successful surgeon and now he's basically you know a flunky for this mad scientist… who saves lives so that's good.
why are you pushing a crash cart?
why are we in the coma patients’ room?
you didn't keep this patient despite the cat you kept this patient because of the cat. you're scared there's something to it.
cats' brains are always in alpha mode. the few scientific tests that have seemed to confirm psychic phenomena that's where it takes place.
i was kidding.
her name's debbie.
look at debbie.
now that you've delivered that important lesson i'm gonna go test the patient.
now you're punishing me because you think i'm superstitious? what do you care?
what?
i wasn't scared by the umbrella either.
i realize it's stupid. i just… i don't know everything. i don't want to invite…
how many times are we gonna watch this? there's no tumor.
maybe it has something to do with that little red dot dancing around down there.
maybe we're not wasting time. we wouldn't have seen a flat lesion.
here kitty kitty kitty. come here. here kitty. [he opens the door to the conference room. she meows once but doesn’t move. kutner leaves through that door instead.]
it's not cancer. we found spider veins on her back. they weren't there when she came in.
but the bronchospasm?
i think she's dying.
i don't mean because of the spider veins. mr. limpert died.
it's your coma patient. he was stable for a year and a half and he just died. the cat was right house.
you believe it now?
cat's nose is powerful. it could smell liver or kidney failure.
a cat's vision is at the blue end of the spectrum.
you all right? your nose.
sounds like he said do you like cranberry juice? [he checks the red stuff on his lab coat.] crap.
blood on my face?
i’m not sure.
[enunciating clearly] yeah a cat!
here's your burger.
we'll get his doctor to order an mri.
check it out they have those mri video goggles. i heard these were awesome.
it's a beach. oh look there's taub… drinking a margarita and mocking us for driving all the way up here.
shouldn't we be entertaining our patient?
house said we should. the mind is like a muscle. if you don't exercise it it'll atrophy just like anything else. whoever's with him needs to talk. keep his mind active. and it'll show house you still care.
then why don't you just quit?
oh. maybe you should figure it out before house figures it out for you.
we'll be right back.
it may not be alcohol at all. street opiates could also cause locked-in…
…mppp.
he runs a business meets a lot of people he could've picked up rotavirus.
rotavirus out.
what about inside the country?
not if lee was the only one coming down to the basement.
resumes and cover letters here… some are weeks old. he's been spending time here for a while.
looks like he temped a few times. as a janitor. factory out on route 10.
big step down from running your own business to sweeping up.
[taking a sample from the floor] metal filings. judging by the color i'd say cadmium.
charging… clear. again… clear.
we need to get him started on steroids.
so we put in a temporary pacer it’s not gonna —
is it your eye?
maybe he's not saying no maybe he's saying down. [“yes” beep] are you saying that the pain is lower? [“yes” beep] how low your leg? [“no” beep] your foot? [“yes” beep]
where's the new bracelet?
you got the patient's urine on that arm?
you've got a rash.
i figured. so what if the rash isn't just a rash? what if it's an infection? if there were rats in that basement then the liver failure could be caused by leptospirosis. it transfers through urine. rat pee to him his pee to you. the infection would need an entry point. look for any recent scratches cuts.
the infection destroyed your liver which released toxins that caused the locked-in syndrome. you were dying of a paper cut.
let’s start him on high dose penicillin g.
we found rats in your buddy dave's basement. tested positive for leptospirosis. that means we're on the right treatment. so… try moving a finger. your brain needs to get used to doing its job again. try harder. i'm sure you've lost hope. i know we've told you several times that we knew what this was but this time we're right. concentrate. move one finger for me. [lee’s right forefinger moves. kutner smiles and raises lee’s hand so he can see his finger moving.] welcome back.
it was his idea. he saw the rash —
don't toy with him. if you're going to fire him —
too bad it isn’t true.
