i was waiting 2 hours out there. [he puts a piece of gum in his mouth and house closes the door]
you don't introduce yourself? [he starts unzipping his pants]
how can you tell--
just take a swab and get it tested ok?
you're rude.
and you're smart and you're funny but you are bitter. [he starts pulling up his pants] and you're lonely so you treat everyone around like they're idiots and you get away with it because of your cane.
but you're not actually getting away with it. last nurse you made fun of she probably slipped some crap into your coffee.
treat people like jerks you get treated like a jerk.
thank you.
you're kidding me.
i don't want to sue you.
i want to beat the crap out of you.
i'll tell you why. you're a bully. and bullies they don't back down until they run into someone stronger and meaner.
yes.
i'm not looking for sincerity. i'm looking for humiliation. something that will make you think twice before you treat the next patient like crap.
if you'd actually read my chart you'd know that i'm a cop. you were going 40 in a 25 zone.
license registration proof of insurance.
that's a shame.
you took a pill while examining a patient that's serious addictive behavior. i'm betting that you're holding right now.
pupils dilated appear to be under the influence of a narcotic. would you mind turning around please and putting your hands behind your head?
most people realize that there's only one answer. [he reaches into a pocket and finds some vicodin.] got a prescription?
arrogant son-of-a-bitch like you? oh i bet you didn't bother. you are under arrest for possession of narcotics. [he cuffs him.] you have the right to remain silent which you should take advantage of for once in your life. if you give up the right to remain silent anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law.
i think you mean barney fife.
you need time to think of some more?
no problem which do you prefer?
i see spending a night in jail hasn't humbled you a bit.
just bringing your boss up to speed which i guess you didn't feel was necessary. [he takes out some more gum and puts it in his mouth.]
people who are innocent tend not to try to hide their arrest.
i think working around a bunch of nurses has given you a false sense of your ability to intimidate. [he walks out of the clinic while house glares daggers at his back. foreman and cameron walk in to find house.]
executing a search of the premises.
when you err when you got bailed out before we could get a judge to approve this [he holds up a search warrant and takes the evidence bag.] i almost didn't bother. i thought for sure you'd come straight home and throw everything out. rookie mistake; never underestimate the stupidity of an addict. there's got to be over 600 vicodin in here which most da's would say proves intent to traffic. even if all you'd really intended was simply to be wasted 24/7 while practicing medicine.
[shakes the evidence bag and listens to the pills rattle in the bottles.] all these were legally prescribed to a man who's in constant pain but never misses a day at work?
yeah yeah crossed my mind. among other things like what an unprofessional unethical arrogant ass you are. because if you're unprofessional in one area it only makes sense.
now maybe just a few of these are in someone else's name. forged prescription. just swiped from the pharmacy when nobody's looking. [he steps closer to house with a smug expression on his face.] you wouldn't do that right?
well i see a lot of cases where people who have real injuries end up getting addicted. [wilson nods.] and then well things kinda spiral out of control. and lives get ruined and not just their own.
[drags an end table to sit closer to wilson by the desk. he takes some more prescriptions out of the file he's holding and hands them to wilson.] what about these?
you sure?
because the signatures on these look a little different than the signatures on those.
you look surprised.
are you sure?
i'm going to give you a moment to reconsider that answer because if you're for some reason mistaken we will find out and that will not be good for you or doctor house.
alright. i guess that's it then.
thank you for your help.
mind if we talk for a few minutes?
how many pills would you say dr. house takes a day?
[he shrugs.] try.
a day?
has he ever had you write prescriptions for him?
i meant the former.
can i ask what dr. house has done to deserve your loyalty? he's not known as a great boss. he's not even much of a friend. look how he left dr. wilson holding the bag.
[smiling.] it's odd. you don't know about that. you defend him and he won't even tell you what's happening in his life.
how many pills does he take a day?
ever write any prescriptions for him?
why? did he tell you to?
medicine attracts people who are attracted to power. i know how he hates when he is defied by a patient. i doubt he handles defiance from his staff any better. now you correct me if i'm wrong but i don't think dr. house asks for anything. i think he takes it. and i think that you are stuck lying to the police to cover up something
should we go somewhere to talk?
so you think i'm a bureaucrat with a badge following some arbitrary guideline?
so you're saying i should just trust him. do you?
i'm not sure you are either.
i've been a cop for twenty years. not a day goes by that someone doesn't try to sell me some self-serving story.
if you had my job you'd know. [beat.] everybody lies.
i'm actually off this week.
this isn't personal. not anymore.
i think you're angry at the wrong person.
no.
[calm] this is how i get what i want. i put pressure... on people. and if it doesn't work on wilson it'll work on you.
none of you are innocent.
not one of you.
not one of you has told me the truth about dr. house.
[mad] no the pills... distort... reality. he is an addict.
[intensely] look he's treating people. he needs to find a different way to cope before he kills somebody! if he hasn't done that already.
well it's not being dealt with by doctors. doctors are covering it... up.
the whole point of the criminal justice system... is to make things right when everything else fails. with all due respect you have failed.
you don't have to testify he's broken any laws. though i'm sure you could. just how many pills he takes in a day. 'cause i'm fairly confident i can prove that he didn't... have that many... legitimate prescriptions.
i uh i had a uh had a buddy at trenton pd... do some digging. your brother locked up for drugs. your own flesh and blood. now you don't even visit. but your boss practises medicine on drugs. time to start lying to the cops.
you uhm you testify. i can make sure that marcus goes free on parole in less than two months.
dr. foreman the way you talk you think you never committed any crimes yourself. now you and dr. house you are both cold bastards. you don't give a damn about your brother and you can't stand house. but i do expect you to take this deal because you hate hypocrisy more. house has had a thousand chances. you had two chances. why is your brother stuck at one?
i know. women don't give up guys that... they're in love with.
the guy is unhinged and unethical does what he wants with no concern for others. but you stand by him.
no.
not because you're a girl. because ten years ago you got an a in calculus until you ratted yourself out. showed your professor a mistake he missed. because you married a man...
you used to be someone who did the right thing. house has changed you. d'you think it's all been for the better?
you told your associates that uh i'd frozen your accounts.
smart lie. you figured they'd think there was a reason that you'd been singled out. like that uh you'd agreed to testify against house.
you have a uh reputation as a bit of an opportunist. you already gave your boss up once from what i've heard.
if you lose your job you find another one. you get fired [shakes head] chances don't look so hot.
because you rolled on him.
i think you will. and he's gonna think you already did.
in twenty-four hours all three of you will have access to your accounts again.
if i was looking at this as an outsider [points to the other people in the cafeteria] i would say it was because detective tritter had what appeared to be a very pleasant lunch with dr chase.
the two of them appear to be... working together.
merry christmas.
i spoke with the da he agreed to two months in a rehab facility in exchange for a guilty plea.
i got you on forgery fraud and on drugs--
knock it off. [he gets up off the seat and approaches house] look i don't care why doctor wilson is doing this and right now it makes no difference to you either you need to deal with the reality of your current situation. you want to stand on principle you end up in a cell and you end up never practicing medicine again. so you got two choices - your principles or your life.
the da put a clock on the deal. you got three days to decide.
you want to go inside? got a cafeteria in here right?
house has hurt plenty of people you included.
vicodin does not make house a genius whatever he does on the pills he can do off. he is just not willing to try.
then we'll subpoena you your previous statement will be read into evidence and you'll be charged with interfering with an investigation and you will go to jail.
statistically the two of you will be in jail.
that's off the table.
got new evidence. we don't need wilson anymore. the thing about addicts no matter how smart they are they are dumb when it comes to drugs. so i've been keeping an eye on the pharmacy log seems some patient of wilson's name's zebalusky managed to pick up his oxy prescription after he died. [house glares at him] jesus walks huh? merry christmas.
complaint department's across the hall [house walks over to him] i'm busy can i just assume that you told me how unfair i'm being and...
thank you. i know that couldn't have been easy for you to say. even if you don't mean a word of it. [tritter starts to walk away but house follows him]
and i'm sure you'd pass. the thing is i've never been interested in what you have to say; all i care about is what you do. i'll see you at the hearing.
[looking at what house has made] caterpillar?
cuddy wouldn't get off the phone until i promised i'd come see for myself. i gotta admit this move i did not expect.
well you're obviously making an effort. so i suppose the next step is for me to talk to the da.
[shakes head] no.
you ever trust an addict? you ever give one the benefit of the doubt? how many times did it work out for you?
no more christmas cards no i learned. people like you even your actions lie [tritter walks out while house glares voldemort comes up behind house for a look]
he told me to get out of his office [shot of house looking bored] i warned him that he could end up in prison and lose his medical license. if he was concerned he didn't show it.
yes which is what led me to the hospital pharmacy.
[standing up] your honour she's lying she's obviously forged that report.
there is other evidence your honour.
dr house. [house stops and goes over to tritter accompanied by the bailiff]
good luck i hope i'm wrong about you. [tritter leaves]
