see that? they all assume i'm a patient because of this cane.
i don't want them to think i'm a doctor.
people don't want a sick doctor.
the one who can't talk i liked that part.
and your cousin doesn't like the diagnosis. i wouldn't either. brain tumor she's gonna die boring.
you're the oncologist; i'm just a lowly infectious disease guy.
she's 29. whatever she's got is highly unlikely.
that's an hmo lab; you might as well have sent it to a high school kid with a chemistry set.
i thought your uncle died of cancer.
that you know of.
none of which is even close to dispositive. all it does is raise one question. your cousin goes to an hmo?
and the big green thing in the middle of the bigger blue thing on a map is an island. i was hoping for something a bit more creative.
is she a doctor?
everybody lies.
no treating illnesses is why we became doctors treating patients is what makes most doctors miserable.
if we don't talk to them they can't lie to us and we can't lie to them. humanity is overrated. i don't think it's a tumor.
are you in first year of medical school? no. first of all there's nothing on the cat scan. second of all if this is a horse then the kindly family doctor in trenton makes the obvious diagnosis and it never gets near this office. differential diagnosis people: if it's not a tumor what are the suspects? why couldn't she talk?
get her a contrast mri.
mad zebra.
no blood thiamine level was normal.
re-draw the blood tests. and get her scheduled for that contrast mri asap. let's find out what kind of zebra we're dealing with here.
really? well that's odd because i had no intention of being in your office 20 minutes ago.
no just that i can't think of anything that i'd be interested in.
i have tenure. are you going to grab my cane now stop me from leaving?
i'm here from 9 to 5.
rough year.
i call back. sometimes i misdial.
see i was right this doesn't interest me.
it's 5:00. i'm going home.
nice.
excellent we have a point of agreement. you aren't going to fire me.
well like the philosopher jagger once said you can't always get what you want.
you pulled my authorization.
no mris no imaging studies no labs.
if you're gonna fire me at least have the guts to face me.
i'm angry! you're risking a patient's life.
you showed me disrespect you embarrassed me and as long as i'm still work here you have[interrupted]
so because you want me to treat patients you aren't letting me treat patients.
do the mri she folded. [ducklings leave house turns to wilson] i've gotta do four hours a week in this clinic until i make up the time i've missed. 2054. i'll be caught up in 2054. [he walks into the clinic] you better love this cousin a whole lot.
told you can't trust people.
can't get a picture gonna have to get a thousand words.
we need to know if there's some genetic or environmental causes triggering an inflammatory response.
truth begins in lies. think about it.
12:52 pm dr. house checks in please write that down. do you have cable tv here somewhere? general hospital starts in 8 minutes.
can't you give out the aspirin yourself? i'll do paperwork.
cough just won't go away runny nose looks a funny color.
i think i read about something like that in the new england journal of medicine.
the color?
you mean yellow; it's jaundice.
well how orange?
painkillers.
no cause they're yummy. you want one? it'll make your back feel better.
unfortunately you have a deeper problem. your wife is having an affair.
you're orange you moron! it's one thing for you not to notice but if your wife hasn't picked up on the fact that her husband has changed color she's just not paying attention. by the way do you consume just a ridiculous amount of carrots and mega-dose vitamins?
the carrots turn you yellow the niacin turns you red. get some finger-paints and do the math. and get a good lawyer.
deep breath.
has he been using his inhaler?
your doctor probably was concerned about the strength of the medicine too. she probably weighed that danger against the danger of not breathing. oxygen is so important during those prepubescent years don't you think? ok i'm gonna assume that no body's ever told you what asthma is or if they have you had other things on your mind. a stimulant triggers cells in your child's airways to release substances that inflame the air passages and cause them to contract. mucus production increases cell-lining starts to shed. but the steroids the steroidsstop the inflammation. the more often this happens[trails off and starts to leave the room]
forget it. if you don't trust steroids you shouldn't trust doctors.
steroids. give her steroids high doses of prednisone.
so is a tumor. her sed rate was elevated.
yeah i know. i have no reason to think that it's vasculitus except that it could be.
yes we can we treat it. if she gets better we know that we're right.
we learn something else.
it's not the parrot.
how many kids were there in the class?
how many are home sick?
none but you think that 5 year olds are more serious about bird hygiene than their teacher. you've been through her home?
would the police call for permission before dropping by to check out a crime scene?
far as i know she's running a meth lab out of her basement.
and if i was a kindergarten student i would trust her implicitly. [sigh] ok i'll give you a for instance. the lady back there who made your egg-salad sandwich. her eyes look glassy did you notice that? now hospital policy is to stay home if you're sick but if you're making $8.00 an hour then ya kinda need the $8.00 an hour right? the sign in the bathroom says that employees must wash after using the facilities but i figure that somebody who wipes snot on a sleeve isn't hyper concerned about sanitary conditions. so what do ya think? should i trust her? i want you to check the patient's home for contaminants garbage medication[interrupted]
isn't that how you got into the felker's home? [pause] yeah i know court records are sealed you were 16 it was a stupid mistake but your old gym teacher has a big mouth. you should write a thank you note.
well i needed somebody around here with street smarts. ok? knows when you're being conned knows how to con.
i'm pretty sure you can't sue somebody for wrongful hiring.
i'm doing research. people are fascinating aren't they?
well she's my patient that's what you do with patients. you give them medicine.
you're comparing me to a nazi? nice.
she's my patient.
i did not get her sick she is not an experiment i have a legitimate theory about what's wrong with her.
there's never any proof. 5 different doctors come up with 5 different diagnoses based on the same evidence.
i don't i just find it hard to operate on the opposite assumption. and why are you so afraid of making a mistake?
come on.
people used to have more respect for cripples you know! [turns to a guy in a wheelchair] they didn't really.
should i discontinue the treatment boss?
cool huh?
how long do we have?
we're gonna stop all treatment.
no it's not a tumor. the steroids did something i just don't know what.
yeah we're gonna watch her die. specifically we're gonna watch how fast she's dying. you just told us each diagnosis has its own timeframe. when we see how fast it's killing her we'll know what it is.
well i got nothing. how bout you?
any other reason you think you may have chronic fatigue syndrome?
it's kinda the definition of getting older.
apparently not while researching this stuff on the internet.
[looks contemplative and then serious] excellent diagnosis [sarcastic]!
[heavy sigh] ya know i think there just might be.
i need 36 vicodin and change for a dollar.
exam room 2. [places the bottle back on the counter.]
it's not a tumor; she's getting worse too fast. she can't stand up.
you said nothing that would explain these symptoms. what did you find that doesn't explain these symptoms?
you idiot!
not you him! you said you didn't find anything.
you found ham.
where there's ham there's pork where there's pork there's neurocysticercosis.
it fits. could have been living there for years it never occurred to me [interrupted]
ok mr. neurologist. what happens when you give steroids to a person who has a tapeworm?
in a typical case if you don't cook pork well enough you ingest live tapeworm larvae. they got these little hooks they grab onto your bowel they live they grow up they reproduce.
that's because this is not a typical case. tapeworm can produce 20 to 30000 eggs a day. guess where they go.
not all of them. unlike the larvae the egg can pass right through the walls of the intestines and into the blood stream. and where does the blood stream go?
as long as it's healthy the immune system doesn't even know it's there. the worm builds a wall uses secretions to shut down the body's immune response and control fluid flow. it's really kinda beautiful.
it's too late for that. it's dying and as it dies this parasite loses the ability to control of the host's defenses. the immune system wakes up and attacks the worm and everything starts to swell and that is very bad for the brain.
no no no no you see it fits it's perfect! it explains everything.
i can prove it by treating it.
[to nurse] will you excuse us please?
i'm dr. house.
you're being an idiot. ahem. [pause] you have a tapeworm in your brain it's not pleasant but if we don't do anything you'll be dead by the weekend.
when you're all better i'll show you my diplomas.
i'm not talking about a treatment; i'm talking about a cure. but because i might be wrong you want to die.
i had an infarction.
it's what happens when the blood flow is obstructed. if it's in the heart it's a heart attack. if it's in the lungs it's a pulmonary embolism. if it's in the brain it's a stroke. i had it in my thigh muscles.
there was plenty they could do if they made the right diagnosis but the only symptom was pain. not may people get to experience muscle death.
i hoped i was dying.
when you're scared you'll turn into me.
there's no such thing! our bodies break down sometimes when we're 90 sometimes before we're even born but it always happens and there's never any dignity in it. i don't care if you can walk see wipe your own ass. it's always ugly always. [pause] you can live with dignity we can't die with it.
no treatment.
but she does.
that didn't happen here.
i solved the case my work is done.
patients always want proof we're not making cars here we don't give guarantees.
yeah yeah yeah what's the damn idea?
worm cysts is the same density as the cerebrospinal fluid we're not going to see anything in her head but chase is right he's right we should x-ray her but we don't x-ray her brain we x-ray her leg worms love thigh muscle. if she's got one in her head i guarantee you there's one in her leg.
does it matter?
why?
no it just seems that way because you can't think of an answer. does it make a difference why i think i'm a jerk? the only thing that matters is what you think. can you do the job?
no it wasn't a racial thing i didn't see a black guy. i just saw a doctorwith a juvenile record. i hired chase cause his dad made a phone call. i hired you because you are extremely pretty.
i can't believe that that would shock you. it's also not what i said. no i hired you because you look good; it's like having a nice piece of art in the lobby.
but not the top.
yes you were a very good applicant.
would that upset you really to think that you were hired because of some genetic gift of beauty not some genetic gift of intelligence?
but you didn't have to. people choose the paths that gain them the greatest rewards for the least amount of effort. that's a law of nature and you defied it. that's why i hired you. you could have married rich could have been a model you could have just shown up and people would have given you stuff. lots of stuff but you didn't you worked your stunning little ass off.
gorgeous women do not go to medical school. unless they're as damaged as they are beautiful. were you abused by a family member?
sexually assaulted?
but you are damaged aren't you?
you said she was your cousin. why would you lie?
you lied to a friend to save a stranger you don't think that's screwed up?
i never lie.
got change for a dollar?
close the door. close the door!
she's knows i'm in here the clinic as she commanded; she just doesn't know i'm alone.
i'm off at 4:00.
i go out there i get assigned a kid with a runny nose. that's 30 seconds looking at the nose; 25 minutes talking to a worried mom who won't leave until she sure it's not meningitis or a tumor.
that would be lying.
not the definition of case though.
cameron is answering my mail.
research?
so 4:03 pm. dr. house checks out. please write that down.
sorry done for the day. there's plenty of docs here to take care of you.
hah nice try but this is a walk-in clinic which means there are no appointments. it means you walk in sign the chart and a doctor will see you just not me.
not a big letter writer.
when did my signature get so girly?
see that g see how it makes a big loop on top? it doesn't even look like my handwriting. think i have something? what's the differential diagnosis for writing g's like a junior high school girl?
perseverance does not equal worthiness. next time you want to get my attention wear something fun. low-rider jeans are hot.
night terrors yeah? as in big scary monsters?
to see the family.
9 times out of 10 there's no reason to talk to a patient but night terrors in a 16 year old is a very good reason to talk to this family. good work.
margins look fine. no lesions color is good. how long have you been having night terrors?
nothing it's just fun watching him blink. [to dan] name as many animals as you can that begin with the letter b go.
baby elephant is actually a good answer; b is a bear of a letter.
proves two things no neurological damage and your son is never going to be chief fry cook. in teens there are two likely causes of night terrors: post traumatic stress any recent shootouts at your high school?
well then dave
if there's no trauma the other cause is sexual abuse. so who's molesting you? teacher extra friendly neighbor? i'd ask if either one of you were involved but you'd deny it.
i say it here it comes out there. this lack of response is consistent with abuse.
[to cameron] did you know that he got hit in the head?
yeah why bother.
you hound me for my opinion and then question my diagnosis. cool. er obviously screwed up kid's got a concussion.
well that changes everything you need glasses. that's why you had double vision which is why you got hit which is why you have a concussion which is why you have night terrors. you need to see an ophthalmologist which i am not.
you're an only child aren't you?
everything is about you. this may seem incredibly controversial but i think sexual abuse is bad. i just wanted to make sure he wasn't being diddled by daddy or mommy anything else is just a bonus.
[attention on dan] interesting.
don't move. did i bore you in there?
are you tired?
right now at this moment are you tired?
that twitch in your leg. did you feel that?
it's called a myoclonic jerk it's very common when you're falling asleep. respiration rate falls and the brain interprets this as the body dying so it sends a pulse to wake it up.
so he's not asleep he's awake. [turns to cameron] admit him.
i recognize that loopy g. so what does the jerk tell us?
a movement disorder or degenerative brain disease. either way this kid's gonna be picking up his diploma in diapers and a wheelchair.
you wish. no fever no white count. anyone think this differential diagnosis might be compromised because we don't have an accurate family history?
you didn't even take an accurate family. his father's not his father.
30% of all dads out there don't realize they're raising someone else's kid.
that's what our moms would like us to believe.
fifty bucks says i'm right.
hit a nerve? don't worry foreman. i'm sure the guy who tucked you in at night was your daddy.
yes feel free to exclude any symptom if it makes your job easier.
that's a good point. before we condemn this kid maybe we should entertain dr. chase's skepticism. i want a detailed polysomnograph. if he's having night terrors i want to see them.
i'm not restraining you for them. eeg revealed abnormalities in your brain caused by nerve damage in your toes.
fixing it.
oh they know all about this.
this is gonna hurt dan.
ok but let's pretend there's something and go from there. who sees something on this mri?
he's 16 so he should have an absolutely pristine brain. the smallest thing is abnormal.
excellent you see what he did there? he took a small clue that there's a neurological problem and wasn't afraid to run with it.
no there's not he's completely wrong.
he knew that i saw something on the mri so he figured there must be something there and took a guess. clever but also pathetic.
take a close look at the corpus callosum.
are we all looking at the same thing? 200 million interhemispheric nerve fibers the george washington bridge between the left and right side of the brain. it's subtle.
are you guessing?
too bad you're right.
yeah he probably got restless and shifted one hemisphere of his brain to a more comfortable position. something is pushing on it.
do you see a tumor on this mri?
there's no tumor just a blockage causing pressure causing symptoms. today
he's lucky to have you as his doctors.
yummy.
mmhmm. no fever glands normal missing her vaccination dates.
think they don't work?
mmmm. may i? [he takes the frog and starts to do the gribbit noise with the baby]
gribbit gribbit gribbit. [the baby laughs] all natural no dyes. that's a good business: all-natural children's toys. those toy companies they don't arbitrarily mark up their frogs. they don't lie about how much they spend on research and development. the worst a toy company can be accused of is making a really boring frog.
gribbit gribbit gribbit. you know another really good business? teeny tiny baby coffins. you can get them in frog green or fire engine red. really. the antibodies in yummy mummy only protect the kid for 6 months which is why these companies think they can gouge you. they think that you'll spend whatever they ask to keep your kid alive. want to change things? prove them wrong. a few hundred parents like you decide they'd rather let their kid die then cough up 40 bucks for a vaccination believe me prices will drop really fast. gribbit gribbit gribbit gribbit gribbit.
a cold.
complications in surgery?
really?
which means multiple sclerosis. and the reason it takes three of you to tell me this?
oh who cares about mcpherson? i hear he tortured kittens.
oh mcdonald. wonderful doctor loved kittens.
well if it is it's gone from 0 to 60 in three weeks which would indicate rapidly progressive ms. not the fun ms with the balloons and the bike rides for cripples in wheelchairs.
start treating him now he can walk for another couple of years maybe live for another 5. break it to the family. i'm going home.
dr. cuddy great outfit.
no hooker. went to my office instead of my home.
yeah i got that part from the message. you said i was needed immediately.
i agree he's gonna have a very nasty headache. that would also be my opinion if consulted tomorrow morning.
[sighs] this is not a toddler wandering around a department store. he's 16. you'll find him. i'm going home.
no i mean call me if i can do something. i'm bad at search parties and i'm bad at sitting around looking nervous doing nothing.
why? you think they're hiding him? make sure someone checks the roof; some of the orderlies keep the door propped open so they can grab a smoke.
dr. foreman. i assume you found the kid.
suicidal?
conscious?
how'd you talk him down?
how come you didn't do it?
come on you can ride up with me.
anybody tell the family that their boy almost stepped off a roof? they must be thrilled.
why does everyone always think i'm being sarcastic? this is great news! he doesn't have ms. the parents should be thrilled well the mom anyway. of course the dad probably doesn't know[interrupted]
he was on the roof thinking he was on the lacrosse field conscious and therefore not a night terror. you want some of this? [asking foreman about the coffee]
he was in an acute confusional state which doesn't fit with a demyelinating disease like ms.
right he has an infection in his brain.
well it might get complicated. we work together. i am older certainly but maybe you like that.
heh nice cover.
we don't need a definitive test to confirm this.
ok let's wait for you to run titers on 4000 viruses while this kid's brain turns to mush.
well it is if it's neurosyphilis the likelihood of a false negative on an rpr test 30% the likelihood of a 16 year old having sex roughly 120%.
we're not going to wait for that. the most effective way to deliver the drug is right into his brain via the spine.
show of hands. who thinks i'm not in my right mind?
and who thinks i forget this fairly basic neurological fact?
who thinks there's a third option?
very good what's the third choice?
excellent inject him through a lumbar puncture.
geesh. it's infected with a really big hole like you stuck a nail in it to relieve the pressure.
although the wound is irregular not cylindrical it's shaped like a triangle so not a nail. steak knife?
[whispered] nail file. yeah pain'll make you do stupid things. something to take the edge off? [takes out his pills and puts one in his hand]
cheers. [dry swallows the pill and funsten eats his (ewwwww)] [limps back
here on work?
does your penis hurt?
no just thought i'd toss you a really inappropriate question. your lawyer's gonna love it.
you're from maplewood new jersey. right?
now why would you drive 70 miles to get treatment for a condition that a 9 year old could diagnose? it's the free-flowing pus that's the tip-off.
not for family not for work. you drove 70 miles to a walk-in-clinic. you passed two hospitals on the road. now either you have a problem with those hospitals or they have a problem with you. my guess is that you've sued half the doctors in maplewood and the rest are now refusing to treat you. it's ironic isn't it? it's like the boy who sued wolf. you know what? i bet we have a doctor here named wolfe. how perfect would that be? i'm gonna page him.
i didn't say i wouldn't treat you. we'll drain your knee run some lab work fix you right up.
i'm a people person.
all i know is that he sued some doctors who am i to assume that they didn't have it coming to them. [stops when he sees cuddy coming] the cutest little tennis outfit my god i thought i was going to have a heart attack.[acts like he just realized that cuddy was there.] oh my i didn't see you there that is so embarrassing.
oh sweet of you to ask funny story she was going to be a hospital administrator but hated having to screw people like that.
you have very acute hearing.
in due course of course.
doesn't sound like me.
you think?
[stage whisper] my guy knows a guy who can get you in for $50 bucks.
and if i win no clinic hours for a week.
so either it's a bad batch of penicillin or our diagnosis is wrong. square one. mignight.
there goes metabolic. [crosses off m]
i for inflammation. [crosses out the i]
d see ya. [crosses out the d] n for neoplastic?
i for inflammation.
stupid to have two i's in one mneumonic. what's the other one?
trauma later much. [looks at the board which is now all crossed out.] you know the problem? midnight is actually spelled with a g and an h if we could just figure out what those two letters stand for. [sighs and walks away for the board. his back is now facing the ducklings] it's a sick brain having fun torturing him talking to him. [pause] scaring the hell out of him. get him an eeg left and right eog esophageal microphones. if this thing wants to talk let's listen.
we're missing something. this is screwed up.
i panicked ok? sounded cool though they bought it.
oh crap. another reason i don't like meeting patients. if they don't know what you look like they can't yell at you. [aside to wilson] here we go.
if i eat standing up i spill.
i'm sorry you need to vent i understand.
blood pressure's 110/70 the shunt is patent well placed in the right lateral ventricle the ekg shows a normal qrs with deep wave inversions throughout both limb and pericardial leads. lfts are elevated but only twice the normal range. oh yeah and he's hearing voices. [pause] go hold his hand. go on; i'll bus your tray.
got any sample bags on you?
their son is deathly ill i know it's terrible but the fact is if i don't keep busy with trivial things like this i'm afraid i might start to cry.
yeah? you want to double the bet?
general hospital is on channel 6.
no epileptiform activity. [turns to cameron] what are you doing?
good run dna on these. [he puts down two cups that are labeled mommy and daddy???]
parents' coffee cups.
i've had this conversation once already. if you've got something else to do do it. otherwise do this.
hey mr. funsten! i was wondering when you'd be back. got some papers for me?
i certainly hope so. [funsten hands him an envelope] what? too cheap to have your lawyer serve it for you or is it more fun this way?
you have gonorrhea.
well maybe you're right but i have a lab result that says you do. it could be a false positive; normally i'd run a second test but since you're here i'll just go with the first.
it's reportable you know public health issue.
oh don't bother yourself the state will call for you. look if you're clean i'm sure this will all blow over no big deal. there's an easy way to find out get one of your doctors to run a test.
uh-uh. these are mine now. i'll see you in court. [house enters the elevator.]
you idiots! you lied to me!
can we get off my screw-ups and focus on theirs? theirs is bigger. you're not dan's parents.
i do.
listen when we were taking his medical history were you confused? did you think we were looking for a genetic clue to his condition or did you think we were trying to ascertain who loves him the most in the whole wide world?
i sampled their dna.
your coffee cups from the cafeteria.
again why are we getting hung up on what i did? [turns to dan's parents] your medical history is useless.
was she vaccinated? [pause] the biological mother when she was a baby did she get her vaccinations?
mm hmm and do you know why kids get vaccinated at 6 months? because before that they are protected by their biological mother's immune system. so was she vaccinated?
an infant picks up a regular old measles virus. he gets a rash he's extremely uncomfortable has a wicked fever but he lives. here's the kicker once every million or so times the virus mutates. [cut to house's office. house and the ducklings are there] instead of dan having a fever and a rash the virus travels to his brain and hides like a time bomb. in this case for 16 years.
i know. there's only been 20 cases in the united states in the past 30 years.
boom stage two is universally fatal.
he's already started showing symptoms. it could be a month it could be tonight.
ask the neurologist.
tap him.
so the wrong treatment kills any hope of the right diagnosis. why do people lie to me? [pauses and sighs] it could also kill him. your ball foreman tell me i don't have to biopsy his brain.
it's not an actual cost. i don't know if you know this but the hospital actually owns the sequencing machine.
well tell the parents to submit the bill to insurance.
it should. if we don't make that bet the kid dies. if not for the paternity bet i never would have taken their dna without their dna we never would have discovered that dan was adopted which was the key to this case. you just don't want to pay your end. big mistake. my guy knows a guy.
well now there's the $100 you owe me there's the $100 i won from cameron $200 i took off of foreman and $600 i got from wilson. very bitter.
wheels one-eight! wheels!
why do you want me to treat this guy?
no no i didn't ask how you plan to con me into treating him i asked you why you want me to treat him.
there are about a billion sick people on the planet why this one?
ah so it's a proximity issue. if somebody was sick in the third floor stairwell that's who we would be talking about.
ok then emergency room guy it is.
you know why.
yeah that's just weird.
cbc was unremarkable abdominal ct scan didn't show anything. so people differential diagnosis. what's wrong with her?
him her does it matter? does anyone think it is a testicular problem? no so chase
foreman if you're going to list all the things it's not it might be quicker to do it alphabetically.< let's see. absidia? excellent.< doesn't account for any of the symptoms.<
well good!< because i thought maybe he was sick but apparently he's not. who wants to do up the discharge papers? [pause]< okay unless we control the blood pressure he's going to start circling the drain before we can figure out what's wrong with him. treat him for sepsis broad-spectrum antibiotics and i want a cort-stim test and an echocardiogram.<
busy case load.
so how are we doing on cotton swabs today? if there's an acute shortage i could run home <U+0096>
nice. [he walks over to the waiting room full of patients.] hello sick people and their loved ones! [cuddy looks at him incredulously.] in the interest of saving time and avoiding a lot of boring chit-chat later i'm dr. gregory house. you can call me gregg. i'm one of three doctors staffing this clinic this morning.
this ray of sunshine is dr. lisa cuddy. dr. cuddy runs this whole hospital so unfortunately she's much too busy to deal with you.< i am a bored [looks at cuddy] certified diagnostician with a double specialty of infectious disease and nephrology. i'm also the only doctor currently employed at this clinic who is here against his will.< that is true isn't it? [cuddy just looks at him.] but not to worry because for most of you this job could be done by a monkey with a bottle of motrin.< speaking of which if you're particularly annoying you may see me reach for this. this is vicodin. it's mine.< you can't have any.< and no i do not have a pain management problem i have a pain problem. but who knows? maybe i'm wrong.< maybe i'm too stoned to tell.< so who wants me?< [none of the clinic patients seem too eager.] and who would rather wait for one of the other two doctors? [everyone raises their hands.] okay well i'll be in exam room 1 if you change your mind.
it was?
hmmm that's a shame.
your mucus was pale goldenrod.
oh yes.< very.
and yet here you are.< what happened?< paramedics took a week to respond to your 911 call?
and you are very bad at whatever it is you do.
i know you're going to get fired. that's why you got the new glasses that's why your teeth are sparkly white.< you're getting the most of your health insurance while you still can.
if you were quitting you would have known that last week when your snot was still pale goldenrod; you're getting fired.
i'll get you in for a full body scan later this week.
so we had six symptoms that didn't add up to anything now we have seven.< who's excited?
maybe.
you read the book.< impressive. it's a ludicrously long shot that explains every one of those symptoms except for the cough and the rash. should we just erase those?
okay. [he grabs a colored marker.] cardiac infection. [he circles all of the applicable symptoms puts down the marker and then picks up a different marker.]< cameron you thought allergy? [circle new marker repeat.] chase what was it you thought carcinoid?< and then there's hypothyroidism could be parasites. finally sinus infection.
cameron was right.< no condition explains all these symptoms. but orange and green covers everything.
and you think one is simpler than two.
baby shows up.< chase tells you that two people exchanged fluids to create this being. i tell you that one stork dropped the little tyke off in a diaper.< you going to go with the two or the one?
i think your tie is ugly. why is one simpler than two?< it's lower lonelier is it simpler?< each one of these conditions is about a thousand to one shot. that means that any two of them happening at the same time is a million to one shot.< chase says that cardiac infection is a 10 million to one shot which makes my idea 10 times better than yours.< get a calculator run the numbers.
tests take time.< treatment's quicker.< start the kid on unasyn for the sinus infection and what was orange?
level 4.
i know what you meant.< we're waiting.
so you said.
two minutes less then when you asked me two minutes ago. [cuddy walks in.]
dr. cuddy thanks for the consult. [he closes the gameboy.] his throat seems to have some condition.
of course!< yes why didn't i i mean because he said that it hurt and i i should have deduced that meant it was sore
patients come first right?
you once asked why i think i'm always right and i realized that you're right at least i think you're right. i don't really know now do i? [cuddy smiles.]
excellent counsel.
no. [house walked in to the lab unbeknownst to the other doctors.] if you look the way you do and you say what you said you have to be aware of the effect that it'll have on men.
yeah.< and dogs should stop licking themselves it's not gonna happen. [chase comes in.]
looking for you guys.
cause i knew you'd be here.
no one.< i assume you're trying to prove my crazy two-illness theory wrong so obviously you're going to be in the lab.< you spin the urine? [he pops a vicodin.]
talk to me when you have.
what did you find out?
i wonder if that's signifigant.
< well if you guys hadn't been so busy trying to prove me wrong you might have checked in on the poor kid.
i was sitting by his bed all morning just so he'd know someone was there for him.
ergo the treatment's working. ergo me right you wrong.
thank you.< it was either that or get my hair highlighted. smugness is easier to maintain.
flies no.< doctors sure.< if i'd said to foreman nice try it was a great guess but not this time what do you think he'd be doing right now?
exactly.
no i don't want him going home.
9:30 i figure she was on the 8th hole when i paged her [he grimaces as his guy dies and hands her the gameboy] probably got another half hour. [she starts to play as foreman opens the door.]
< well the fact that he's getting better would indicate the unreliability of the tests.
her leg hurts after running six miles. who knows it could be anything!
i am so glad you work here.
well that certainly would be a concern. fifty bucks?< [patient looks up.]< don't look away the space monkeys will be all over you.
you think that's bad luck? do you think that god will smite him because of our insensitivity? well if god does you make a quick fifty. [patient kills the little guy on the gameboy.]< go check his white blood count.< if he's fighting off a virus like you think it'll be way up. [he starts to play on the gameboy again. foreman leaves and wilson enters.]
white cell count isn't up is it?
the patient could have died.
well those symptoms are consistent with a dozen other conditions. i you know i i'm entitled to a consult!
oh come on.< you've got a hundred other idiot doctors in this building who go warm and fuzzy every time they pull a toy car out of a nose you don't need me here.
when did i sign up for that course?
working in this clinic obviously instills a deep sense of compassion. [he starts to walk out.] i've got your home number right? in case anything comes up at 3 o'clock in the morning.
don't.
no!< there is not a thin line between love and hate. there is in fact a great wall of china with armed sentries posted every 20 feet between love and hate. [to the pharmacist] 36 vicodin.
i am.
dr. wilson is the prescribing physician.
well we all have our limitations. [he grabs a bottle from the counter and turns to leave.]
what was the kid's first symptom? [small pause] you did the history; of his 800 symptoms which one hit him first?
gout. [he walks back into his office; they follow.]
because he doesn't have gout. every day cells die. [cgi of cells!] we survive because the remaining cells divide and replace the losses. the colchicine a gout medicine blocks mitosis and stops cell division which will result in abdominal pain rash nausea fever kidney failure low blood pressure and will also mess with the bone marrow. [he crosses these all off the board.]
because you guys were right. he didn't have two conditions at the exact same time. first he got a cough. now because he's an idiot he went to a doctor. in order to feel justified charging $200 the doctor felt he should actually do something.< oops. he wrote a prescription. 7000 people die each year from pharmacy screw-ups. not nearly as many as die from doctor screw-ups but still not something they use in their promotional material.< the pharmacist gave him gout medicine instead of cough medicine. and the only thing it wouldn't do: it would do absolutely nothing to relieve his cough.< occam's razor.< the simplest explanation is almost always somebody screwed up.
okay.< two people screwed up.< not as simple as one but
i'm dr. house.< i'm your son's physician.<
it's easy if you don't give a crap about them. that's a good thing. if emotions made you act rationally then they wouldn't be called emotions would they?< that's why we have this nice division of labor: you hold his hand i get him better. if i start tucking him in at night well that's not fair to you guys and if you start prescribing medicine that's not fair to me.< so what i want to know is: who stepped on my side of the med? who cared enough to get stupid enough to give him his cough medicine?
tuesday he's getting better. wednesday he's getting sick again. somebody gave him his cough medicine wednesday. [pause]< come on nobody's gonna be mad.< i just want to know who tried to kill the kid.
page dr. occam.< he's gonna want to hear about this.<
i wish you would dare.< where are the pills?
no it wasn't.< where's the bottle?
it was so perfect.< it was beautiful.
and triteness kicks us in the nads.
this doesn't bother you?
i was not wrong.< everything i said was true.< it fit. it was elegant.
reality is almost always wrong. [takes some vicodin] the cough medicine did something. aggravated the condition. it's all over the place must be in his blood.
lymphoma?
well we foolishly ruled out lymphoma because his ct scan showed no adenophathy cbc showed a normal diffen smear bone marrow showed no <U+0096>
he has no blood pressure no immune system and no kidneys. surgery will kill him.
< i'll schedule him for surgery.
how you doing?
great.< i'm doing good too.< i get to knock off an hour early today.< know why? cause i kissed my boss' ass you ever do that?< i think she just said yes because she wants to reinforce that behavior. wants me to kiss a lot of other people's ass like she wants me to kiss yours.< [boy makes an odd face.]< what would you want a doctor who holds your hand while you die or a doctor who ignores you while you get better?< i guess it would particularly suck to have a doctor who ignores you while you die.
you think it's going to come out on its own? are we talking bigger than a breadbasket? cause actually it will come out on its own which for small stuff is no problem. gets wrapped up in a nice soft package and plop! big stuff you're going to rip something which speaking medically is when the fun stops.
you've been here half an hour and haven't sat down that tells me its location.< you haven't told me what it is that tells me it's humiliating. you have a little birdie carved on your arm that tells me you have a high tolerance for humiliation so i figure it's not hemorrhoids. [pause] i've been a doctor 20 years you're not going to surprise me.
[has to digest this for a moment] is it is it because of the size or the shape or the pounding bass line?
[looks at his watch] i'm gonna wait.
okay it's 3:00 i'm off. would you tell dr. cuddy there's a patient in exam room 2 that needs her attention?< and the riaa wants her to check for illegal downloads. [chuckles at his own joke; cameron runs up.]
okay well let's leave it a couple of weeks. he should be feeling better by then. oh wait which way does time go?
pain in his fingers right. [pops a vicodin]
[to mrs. merrell] hi again. [he enters the prep area.]
hey!< how y'all doing?< interesting fact: every seven years it's a whole new you. inspiring metaphor huh?
yeah i read the sign.< but cells of different organs reproduce at different rates. [he touches brandon's leg brandon flinches and makes noises of protest.] so a new kidney every three years a new stomach lining every week. this is why colchicine poisoning causes all of these symptoms but not all at once.
colchicine does its damage in a very specific order. first of all there's a pain in the abdomen the rash the fever isn't that what you got first? then the kidneys go which is exactly what happened to.
right.< then it screws up your bone marrow and then <U+0096> neuropathy. painful tingling in the fingers and toes. and what do you suppose happens after that? [he rips out some of brandon's hair. his mother doesn't look too thrilled.] hair loss. the bad new is: your special boy is doing drugs.
ecstasy?
d'you know what they cut that stuff with? apparently colchicine unless you ingested the colchicine through your contact lens solution or skin cream or some other drug you're lying about. i don't know how it happened i don't care how it happened it happened. start.
lovely name.< start brandon on fab fragments and give him some tylenol for the hair i pulled out. and get some air in here! [he leaves the room and walks off with wilson.] make a note: i should never doubt myself.
what you don't care about these people?
it's not for me i'm fully stocked.
nope.< trying to solve that kid's case.
yeah.
well you'd be wrong.
you know how many forms of colchicine there are on the market?
neither do i but it's a lot. pills powders liquids iv fluids. somewhere at a party in his coffee up his nose in his ear this kid had some.<
he said he used it twice.
yeah but if you're gonna lie it's <U+0096>
not curious?
right.
it's amnesia.
i just came in to get milk for my coffee which you're out of.
flat.
[to wilson] exhibit a: baby girl hartig. term baby 42 hours old. went into seizures 6 hours ago brought into the intensive care diagnosed with obstruction of the small bowel. [looks at wilson]
people don't bug me until they get teeth. [small pause] exhibit b: baby boy hausen. another term baby 48 hours old. brought into the nicu before the hartig baby: fever of unknown origin 101 degrees trending upwards.
don't touch that.
we have an infection spreading in the hospital.
they fell sick within four hours of each other. they had the same delivery rooms maternity rooms are neighboring so transmission's possible. they have the same symptoms.
what does bowel obstruction on a chart indicate?
it means that some random doctor of indeterminate skill thinks that the patient's bowel is obstructed.
look at the x-ray. it's a normal gas pattern.
[simultaneously] air. air in the colon.
if it's air no bowel obstruction.
no. something's infected both these infants.
because i'm the only one who looked at both kids. i want them isolated; i want the maternity ward shut down.
radiologists always over-read babies' x-rays especially if they're asked to rule out a pathology. he read into it what he wanted.
see this is why i don't waste money on shrinks cause you give me all these really great insights for free.
we have an epidemic! [cuddy stops from going out the door and turns to house.]
how many do?
get up! we're going hunting.
wabbits.
hi. [pause] bye. [passes the baby to foreman saying quietly] he's screaming he's fine.
[looks at elevator] overflow rooms third floor. [goes into elevator]
did he get hot all of a sudden?
no. but i am interested.
three sick babies and a fourth showing early symptoms.
yeah. that would be the difference between an epidemic and a coincidence.
it's worse than that. we don't even know what's the needle we're looking for. [he starts to erase the whiteboard.]
because the hospital's her baby and her baby's sick. if she doesn't solve this soon her head's going to explode and i don't want to get any on me. [chase and cameron snicker softly] so let's figure out what's in the haystack. differential diagnosis people.
next?
which leads us to bacterial infection. [which he writes on the board] it's not responding to broad-spectrum antibiotics so we've got something resistant. the usual suspects.
okay those are the big ones. cultures will take 48 hours might as well be post-mortem. we'll start them on vancomycin for the mrsa and aztreonam for the rest. let's get mris check for abcesses or some occult infection. i'll be in the clinic. grab me if you find something important. or unimportant.
lift up your arms. [she does so.] you have a parasite.
lie back and lift up your sweater. [she lies back and still has her hands up.] you can put your arms down.
only for about a month or so. after that it becomes illegal to remove except in a couple of states. [he starts to ultrasound her abdomen.]
don't worry. many women learn to embrace this parasite. they name it dress it up in tiny clothes arrange playdates with other parasites <U+0096>
[shows her the ultrasound] it has your eyes. [it's a baby!]
well i assume you weren't getting your period. maybe that should have give you an inkling.
yeah i know. i saw the scar on your arm.
mm hmm. interestingly enough you also don't get any periods if it isn't working which is why you were supposed to get regular pregnancy tests. [jill makes a pained face.] i'm going to send a nurse in here to schedule your prenatal care. you're due in about five months so start planning the shower.
one-night stand?
i'll schedule you a paternity test too.
does the old boyfriend look like your husband?
then just have the kid. he'll never know. the most successful marriages are based on lies. you're off to a great start. [he leaves jill looks like she's going to cry.]
well you look cheery. what's going on?
which means the antibiotics are causing the kidney failure.
there's no point in guessing. take one kid off vancomycin and the other off aztreonam.
theraputic trial to find the cause of the infection.
we have four sick kids at least. who knows how many more haven't started showing symptoms yet?
if these two have different reactions we know how to save the rest.
i guess i am.
can i borrow a quarter?
whoa whoa whoa hold on there slick. we didn't all go to law school. your advice is that i should use medical reasons to make medical decisions? hmm that's not going to be as easy
well hartig sounds jewish so does aztreonam so we'll take the hartig kid off vancomycin how's that? [pause]
doctors experiment all the time.
fine. i'll get the parents' consent.
sorry can't do that. it'd be unethical for one patient to know about another patient's treatment.
if they know they won't consent; that defeats the whole purpose.
[getting up from the couch] two more babies have just become symptomatic. i defer to your legal wisdom: which takes precedence? six dying babies or a missing consent form?
who told you where my office was?
ooh i was trying to hide it.
the mono?
[catches on] right. yeah i'm sorry i sometimes forget patients i thought you were this idiot who doesn't know how to use birth control. [pointed look]
that's very often the first sign. [he gets into the elevator.] call my office in the morning i'll schedule him for bloodtests. [the elevator doors close.]
chase. [pause] time of death: 6:57 pm. [long pause] the aztreonam doesn't work. double-cover all the other babies with vancomycin.
cameron you tell the parents. tell them their child probably saved five lives.
chase is busy.
[to wilson] make sure she does her job.
i asked you to make sure she does her job not do it for her.
she felt sorry for the parents so she shut up. you felt sorry for her so you opened your mouth.
yeah she needs to deal with it. if you hadn't bailed her out she would have done it.
yeah what is it?
vancomycin doesn't kill it. aztreonam doesn't kill it. what the hell is this?
this is our fault. doctors over-prescribing antibiotics. got a cold? take some penicillin. sniffles? no problem. have some azithromycin. is that not working anymore? well got your levaquin. antibacterial soaps in every bathroom. we'll be adding vancomycin to the water supply soon. we bred these super bugs. they're our babies. now they're all grown up and they've got body piercings and a lot of anger. [sigh] on the other hand maybe antibiotics had nothing to do with it. did you notice how low his bp was at the end? even with three pressers?
go home. there's nothing more you can do tonight.
baby boy chen-lupino. time of death 6:57 pm thursday december 2nd 2004. [he takes the covers off of the tools and starts to remove the baby's diaper.]
this is a cross-section of the chen-lupino boy's myocardium. fibrosis lymphocydic infiltrates.
yes well we all had plenty of good reasons to think bacterial. nobody is scolding you. [he hands cameron his cane.] unfortunately all of those clever reasons were wrong. it is a virus infecting their hearts.
chase you're the intensivist. how many could we do before we risk exsanguinating the kids?
[writes virus on the white board'] okay so we have to narrow the thousand viruses down to six. now the autopsy's shown us what the virus does. so let's go. what do we know?
also adenovirus. [house starts to make a t-chart on the board.] what else what else? keep talking.
no.
cardiac scarring people.
[muttering] echo 11.
[mutters] influ a. yes. and? [we see more ideas being written on the board.] i'm putting rsv down as a yes. that makes eight.
pushing it but we love that! get the antibody kits start testing the sick kids.
wait a second. the the kids on the floor who didn't get sick. are any of them still in the hospital?
i want to test his blood too.
cause we need all the information we can get. the healthy kid can be our control group.
what did we get?
great.
three viruses?
[sighs] they're infants. they have their mother's blood their mother's antibodies.
uh-uh. we have half the picture. the healthy kids survived because their mothers' antibodies saved them.
and whichever they don't have the antibodies for that's what's killing their kids.
hey foreman? got a minute? [foreman gets into the elevator.]
no news then. how's cameron?
sure. let's start with her and move on to all the other camerons we know.
i can understand how the question would surprise you. i don't quite get how it would confuse you.
why do you want to know why i want to know?
me too.
i'm the most curious man in the world.
well then this must not be trivial. how is cameron handling everything? [they're at the doors of the clinic.]
great glad we talked.
your husband is definitely the source of your mono.
sometimes the best gift is the gift of never seeing you again.
no.
no.
that would be no.
they all gone?
you look tired.
it's no wonder. you've had a hard time the last couple of days.
not like you. [pause] anyone who's that awkward either has no experience around death or too much and i'm pretty sure it's not the former. [cameron starts to put on her coat.] chase told me about that idea you had: the parents holding the baby. where'd you get that? did you lose someone? did you lose a baby?
i'm in the haystack.
right.
enteroviruses are spread by humans. fecal oral could be respiratory secretions though.
that won't do it.
the shedder whoever he is is so virulent cuddy must have noticed him.
and the babies didn't share any common personnel. that's what's weird.
i'm performing a delivery.
patient whose prenatal care i've been handling. just checking her out a couple of minutes ago. of course i'll need one of you two guys to supervise.
late march.
thank god these chairs are comfortable.
we are condemned to useless labor. [house has a giant stack of charts next to him.]
writing down what we already know to be read by nobody. pretty sure dante would agree that qualifies as useless.
oops. i missed.
could an eight-year-old do this? [he makes a face. wilson smiles.]
yeah but see see i'm off at twelve and it's already five of.
melancholy without hope. which circle is that?
hi. i'm dr. house. what seems to be the problem?
you must be all the talk around the holy water cooler. you been washing a lot of dishes recently?
anything new in the kitchen?
should have spent your time saving souls it's easier on the hands. this is contact dermatitis; you're allergic to dish soap.
i've been a doctor for years. why do i have to keep assuring people that i know what i'm doing? a person can become allergic to substances that they've had repeated and prolonged exposure to. the good news is: free samples. diphenhydramine. it's an antihistamine. it'll stop the allergic reaction. take one every eight hours it might make you feel a little sleepy. and get some of that over-the-counter cortisone cream.
you want some water? [he hands her the pills.]
well you just relax for a few minutes. that stuff works pretty fast. [he leaves. the other sisters help augustine take the medication with her thermos of tea. house to the clinic main desk and throws the chart down on the pile of other ones.]
how do you solve a problem like dermatitis?
i don't know. she's certainly looking at me.
and you don't? then you're wearing an awfully funny hat.
lift up your chin. [he listens to her breathing.] sister you're having an asthma attack. i need you to relax. [to eucharist] roll up her sleeve please. [he grabs a syringe from the cabinet.] i'm giving you epinephrine it'll open your lungs and help you breathe. [he sticks the needle in her arm cgi shot of the bloodstream going to her lungs and the airways opening.]
did she take the pill?
it's probably an allergic reaction.
you figure somebody's out to get her? how're you feeling?
i'll put you on some steroids instead.
it's called adrenaline it makes your heart beat fast. [he feels her pulse.] but not this fast. [to the others] get a nurse please. lie back.
somebody get in here! [a tech comes in.] call a code and charge up a defibrillator. she's got no pulse. [the tech runs out house starts chest compressions.]
0.1 cc. that is the standard dose that is what i gave her.
she must have a pre-existing heart condition that got exacerbated by the epinephrine.
i can make it up right now.
but i didn't.
relax they're not going to sue. worse they'd do is whack my hand with a ruler.
you're going to report me?
uh how bout not report me?
it's not allergic. allergies don't cause cardiac arrest like this. could be inflammation of the blood vessels.
churg-strauss vasculitis would. blood vessels of the heart lungs and skin become inflamed causing the asthma rash and heart problems. covers all her symptoms. [they reach the diagnostic office.]
what the hell are those?
candy canes? are you mocking me?
relax. it's a joke.
then i'd definitely suggest treatment.
[pouring coffee] saying you wouldn't say it was my mistake is saying it was my mistake.
i didn't screw up. [foreman shakes his head.] order a chest ct and start the sister on prednisone 40 mg. tid.
oh didn't i mention? the patient's a nun. sister augustine.
[thinks a little] who doesn't?
if cuddy thinks i made a mistake the least she could do is suspend me from clinic duty.
oh here we go. lesson time. i recognize that confidence is not my short suit. i also recognize that i am human and capable of error.
no.
good point. maybe there isn't one. maybe that's my error.
most people don't like to listen so what's wrong with you? [he leaves wilson standing in the clinic.]
let me guess inflammatory bowel.
yes. it's also written on your chart. bloody diarrhea gas pain took sulfasalazine but it didn't work <U+0096>
next tried steroid enemas oral corticosteroids 5asas 6 mercaptopurine i'm impressed.
by how well your last doctor charted.
not likely. i'm giving you a prescription. it's cheap which is good because your insurance company won't pay for it. [he gives santa a prescription who puts on his glasses to read it.]
cigarettes. one twice a day no more no less. studies have shown that cigarette smoking is one of the most effective ways to control inflammatory bowel plus it's been established that you look 30% cooler.
about the looking cooler yeah. the rest is true.
pretty much all the drugs i prescribe are addictive and dangerous. the difference with this one is that it's completely legal. [he turns to leave.] merry christmas.
so what's that tell us?
yeah but hey. i'm think that's a trick question.
in ten seconds i'm gonna announce that i gave her the wrong dose in the clinic.
unless you leave the room. if you stay you'll have to testify. [cuddy stays put.] five four three two. so there i was in the clinic drunk. i open the drawer close my eyes take the first syringe i can find <U+0096> [the ducklings smile cuddy leaves] so what are the options for compromised immune system?
on the other hand it explains the symptoms. swollen hands pulmonary problems cardiac problems <U+0096> it all fits.
so redraw the blood.
then we'll treat it with something that modulates the immune system but doesn't suppress it. hyperbaric oxygen chamber.
oh you people. always with the protocols. [small pause] prep the nun and discontinue the prednisone. [he begins to erase the whiteboard and continues to talk to foreman as the others leave.] i am both amused and annoyed that you think i should be less stubborn than you are.
the one that starts: first do no harm then goes on to tell us no abortions no seductions and definitely no cutting of those who labor beneath the stone. yeah took a read once wasn't impressed.
every treatment has its dangers <U+0096>
i'm convinced. you're not. question is what are you going to do about it? hmm?
house of prayer huh. that explains the good reception. also why nobody's ever here.
i thought that was a job requirement for you people.
[turns off tv] so you're warning me that i may be treating a non-existent ailment
that must make you angry. [eats a piece of chocolate]
[offers the chocolate] want some?
i guess you've got to be good at reading people to be a good infirmarian huh.
so we've got pride anger envy gluttony. that's four out of seven deadly sins in two minutes. do you people keep records of these things? is there a cathlympics?
they like to talk.
yeah that's pretty stupid.
and when things go wrong i get hurt. i'm not tough i'm vulnerable.
you know from the way you're looking at me right now i'd say you just hit number five: lust. [eucharist hands house his candy bar and leaves. house pulls out his pocket tv.]
well thanks for checking up on her. good to know you've got my back.
irritation from the oxygen is typical.
that well just never runs dry does it? if there was no underlying problem then why is she still having the rapid heartrate?
her reaction is a symptom not an error.
yes there is! and if this one doesn't work will find another.
one that fits all the facts. look we obviously have a difference of opinion and that's fine but unfortunately i've used up all the time i've budgeted today for banging my head against a wall.
came for my stethoscope.
okay yeah. i'd like to clear my reputation.
[leaving the exam room] you know why they have ribbons for breast cancer colorectal cancer prostate cancer and not for lung cancer?
it's because people blame lung cancer patients. they smoked they screwed up they deserve to die. the reason people die from lung cancer is guilt. [he enters cuddy's office where the records are kept.]
you said that with great significance.
i'm here because if i'm right cuddy is killing that patient.
then she's saving her.
but she's always with you in spirit. what do you know about the nun?
the cute one. i think she likes me. the sick one obviously.
what's she lying about?
i always say that. and the old nun says the sick nun is a big fat nun liar. you know nuns what do you think?
you hate nuns. you can't hate someone if you don't know them.
i have a theory on what makes good boys good. it's not because of some moral imperative. good boys have the fear of god put into them. catholic church specializes in that kind of training to make good boys afraid of divine retribution so they will do what their daddies tell them like for example going into medical school when it's the last thing they want to do. what do you think?
did you paint or put in new carpets recently?
any way she could have got access to drugs?
i've found that when you want to know the truth about someone that someone is probably the last person you should ask.
she ratted out her fellow sister pretty quickly. if i were you i'd have her repeat a year of nun school. [nun chuckles.]
becoming a doctor doesn't make you a healer.
so what is the sick one's drama?
sure. do all of you lie? it's a good strategy simpler when you all tell the same lie but she has not spent her entire life as a good catholic. when she had a cardiac arrest i had to open her blouse to do cpr and i learned two things: nuns can have nice breasts and she has a tattoo on her shoulder of a skunk. now maybe it's the sacred skunk of joseph but as far as i know catholic foster care and monasteries do not keep tattoo parlors in their refractories.
is irrelevant to you but it's relevant to me.
it's not. [he takes a sip of tea then looks at it.] this tea is delicious. local herbs?
i'm going to do you the biggest favor one doctor can do another. i'm gonna stop you from killing your patient. it's figwort tea. great for that little pick-me-up we're all looking for in the morning. opens the lungs increases the blood pressure stimulates the heart. unfortunately if you then get injected with even 0.1 cc of epinephrine: instant cardiac arrest. still what the hell it tastes great.
has been drinking it religiously so to speak.
all the rest of the symptoms can be explained by a severe long-term allergic reaction.
yes she did. well done. [cameron smiles.] but your unwillingness to stick by your diagnosis almost killed this woman. [no more smiles.] take a lesson from foreman: stand up for what you believe. okay let's go figure out how to save a nun. [he leaves.]
because it's been untreated for so long it's gone from a simple watery eyes scratchy throat allergy to a whopping i'm-gonna-kick-your-ass allergy compromising her immune system diminishing her ability to heal and breaking down her organs systems. so what's the source?
no symptoms persisted days after the dishwashing episode. it's gotta be something she's been exposed to here in the hospital as well as the monastery.
could be but it's not definitive.
okay. and we'll gradually introduce allergens and see how she responds. when she reacts to something we'll know that's what killing her.
how do you get an allergic reaction in a clean room?
checked that.
checked that. checked everything.
checked the blood levels. and it's not eosinophilia or idiopathic anaphylasix.
it's not my will. [takes a couple of vicodin]
what do you want me to do? accept it pack it in?
no they don't. we just don't know the reason.
i don't need verification from you to know that i'm doing my job well. that's your problem not mine.
yeah well you don't need to always do that. [pause]
good.
well talk her out of it.
room's paid up for the rest of the week. you might as well stick around.
does anybody believe anything you say? you're not accepting. you're running away. just like you always do. you ran away from the monastery you get laid you ran away from the real world when getting laid didn't work out so good. now things aren't working out again so off you go.
what i have difficulty with is the whole concept of belief. faith isn't based on logic and experience.
where is the miracle in delivering a crack-addicted baby? hmmm? and watching her mother abandon her because she needs another score. the miracle of love. you're twice as likely to be killed by the person you love than by a stranger.
you can have all the faith you want in spirits and the afterlife and heaven and hell but when it comes to this world don't be an idiot. cause you can tell me you put your faith in god to put you through the day but when it comes time to cross the road i know you look both ways.
then you might as well live. you've got a better shot betting on me than on him.
she has god inside her. it would have been easier to deal with a tumor.
we looked everywhere for an allergen that could be causing this reaction except one place: inside her.
she had one.
she didn't have it at a hospital. order a full body scan.
tell her i'm looking for a miracle.
the copper cross a form of birth control pulled off the market in the 80s.
rare but it happens.
she had an abortion. iud must have been left in embedded in the endometrial tissue where it couldn't be detected.
confined in a sweat box with a bloody nose and all the tissues are soggy.
nope seventh is <U+0096>
i think we both know the flaw in that theory.
kidneys functioning heart rate is normal. you know how it is with nuns: you take out their iuds and they bounce right back.
told you i didn't screw up.
i gave her 0.1 cc of epinephrine.
you're jewish.
no thanks.
your wife doesn't mind being alone at christmas?
[quickly] neither do i. [cuddy enters.]
thank you.
depends what you mean by good. i like these chairs. [ back to paper ]
[rattling paper] of course it's the alcohol. [both turn to look at him] hello! [house gets up and walks over to them] this guy's a professional doctor. plays golf and everything i bet. he's not gonna tell you your mom's an alcoholic without proof. i'm sure he scoped for varices  checked her esophagus ran all kinds of blood tests. doctors like this they don't make assumptions they do the work!
what case? it's over. you're sending her home. [ to luke ] how old is she?
own my own stethoscope. did i ask you how old she was? i forget.
thirty eight year old woman with no previous symptoms or history presents with deep vein thrombosis -- how did she get it?
fine. you're all sleeping. you need a clue. [ circles 38yo on whiteboard ] she's 38 years old! she's 20 years too young to get a deep vein thrombosis!
there was no trauma none of the risk factors.
i have some notes. they're not mine but they're reliable i think for purposes of this discussion. as for the immobility well she's real active right now of course <U+0096> paranoia keeps her limber.
oh yeah <U+0096> she's schizophrenic. and her kid wrote this [ hefting notebook ] so it might be a little biased. having to take care of his nutso mom and all. you think there's a connection? do we include schizophrenia in the differential for dvt?
the answer is no. abnormal dopaminergic pathways in the brain do not cause blood clots. schizophrenia is not the cause of dvt.
on the other hand we don't really know anything about schizophrenia so maybe it is connected.
thanks. i'm more of a leroy neiman man. and it is only about the dvt. she's 38 years old she should be
we don't even know how to treat it! come on! fumigation of the vagina?
two thousand years ago that's how galen treated schizophrenics <U+0096> the marcus welby of ancient greece.
i'm interested. i'm interested in how voices in the head could be caused by malposition of the uterus.
and now what have we got? we've got lobotomies rubber rooms electric shock <U+0096> my <U+0096> galen was so primitive.
going to see the patient. that all-important human connection. thought i'd give it a whirl.
if it wasn't for socrates that raving untreated schizophrenic we wouldn't have the socratic method <U+0096> the best way of teaching everything apart from juggling chainsaws. without isaac newton we'd be floating on the ceiling.
and that guitar player in that english band <U+0096> he was great. [ stopping at lucy's room ] you think i'm interested because of the schizophrenia.
galen was pretty sure about the fumigation thing. [ sliding door open and closed ] pink floyd.
gregory house <U+0096> nice to meet you. [ to luke ] be all right if we spoke alone for awhile?
[ hefting notes ] got your case notes doctor. there's a cafeteria downstairs. [ holding out bill ] get yourself whatever you want as long as there's enough left over for a reuben sandwich dry no fries hold the pickles. should run you about $5.80 with tax. [ luke takes money; house pulls pager off his belt and hands it to the kid ] i'll page you when we're done. [ luke leaves; house goes over and sits at lucy's bedside ]
nice kid. how much do you really drink?
and the meds
very nice.
not mets <U+0096> meds <U+0096> medicine. you take what he tells you to take.
i do.
you told luke it never hurt before.
didn't?
yeah. the mets suck. also for the last two months she hasn't shaved her legs. because of the tremors she cuts herself.
exactly. something changed in the last two months. i'm thinking the amount of blood when she cut herself. so let's start with some bloodwork. collect and send for clotting studies pt ptt factor 5 protein c&s the whole shebang.
everyone this is luke.
yeah yeah yeah save it we're busy. luke give us another half hour with your mom. we need to do some tests. [ luke walks away ] nice kid. take her off the psych meds that way we'll know what's what on the physical side and who knows we might get more out of her. [ guys walk away house is opening up the wrapper munching into the sandwich; cameron is hanging back with him ] don't worry <U+0096> no pickles.
[ chewing ] ok whose?
oh.
[ entering exam room ] well good news the lab says it's not strep so we're done.
no really not strep. boys in the lab sure they're hard drinkers but they're pros you know. plus your kid actually has none of the symptoms of strep i just figured it was quicker running the test than arguing with you. my point is <U+0096> go!
this is why you're here.
you want a doctor to scare her about the dangers of sugar.
[ closes door ] well you know [ comes over to girl ] i feel sorry for those other kids wendy who don't have a mom like yours <U+0096> a mom who knows that sugar causes heart disease appendicitis and athlete's foot.
oh yes it is. no i get it. you want her to slim down a little so she can wear pretty clothes like yours. love the bracelets. hey! what about matching outfits? you could be twins! she can't be your daughter it's impossible you look way too young! [ leaving ] happy birthday. get the kid a damned ice cream cake.
actually i didn't. i've taken her off all medications.
we needed blood for some tests. i assume that was the only way to get it.
look <U+0096> i have a cane and i know how to use it.
ok can i go now? boss? [ walks away ]
so when i said no psych meds i'm just curious <U+0096> which word didn't you understand?
oh great well that's good to hear. so she won't experience any of those pesky little side effects you get when your motives aren't pure.
passing out increased confusion depression that's not gonna happen. that's not gonna screw up our diagnosis cause you just used it to restrain her. i'm so relieved!
it must have been so frightening for you.
yeah! anything but give her drugs <U+0096> that's basically my point!
it turns out your best judgment is not good enough. here's an idea <U+0096> next time use mine.
why did the patient bleed out?
well cover your ears if you don't want me to spoil the ending. everything was normal except for prolonged pt time which means what?
oh that's right <U+0096> cause you drew the blood. but you were precise because you knew the tube was purely for the pt study.
and i'm right with you. i trust this result. for two reasons a) because you are a good doctor and b) because five milligrams of iv haldol makes for a spectacularly cooperative patient. the prolonged pt time makes me think she's got a vitamin k deficiency.
without vitamin k protein c doesn't work. without protein c she clots. clotting and thinning all at the same time.
clever but she's not on ampicillin.
which she refused to take.
gee i wish my idea was as cool and with it as yours. what is yours by the way? do you have one?
three theories. check out her place for ampicillin and diet then ultrasound her liver. let's find out who's right before she bleeds to death.
ah. problem is you can't actually live on this stuff.
yeah vitamin a and c but no k. that's why your mom got sick.
load her up with vitamin k.
if it all checks out you can take her home in a couple of days. oh god you're upset about something. you're gonna open to me now aren't you?
here we go. ok i'm gonna say this once. you have done a very good job taking care of your mother. if this was all she'd eat then what else could you do? gosh just being a kid is a full-time job
good example just the time it takes to express those ridiculous self-centered teenage ideas i don't envy your schedule. [ chomps ] no pickles.
smart woman.
you should get that looked at.
[ putting up x-ray on lightbox ] it's not broken. [ pointing ] see this right here? it's the epiphyseal plate otherwise known as the growth plate.
amazing thing this bone. if you know how to read it it can tell you how old someone really is exactly how old.
not even fifteen. almost though. two weeks away maybe a month.
[ walking over to his desk and sitting down ] happy birthday to both of us. if you're gonna lie though go big go 21. that way you won't need your crazy mom to help you buy vodka.
i suppose your biggest worry isn't the booze. you're 15 basically no mom. child welfare let kids get away with that well they wouldn't need those nice foster homes and that would make them sad.
not the word i'd use. most 15 year old kids are doing what they're supposed to be doing you know they're huffing glue catching crabs
oh relax. it's not even your x-ray.
[sarcastically] that's gonna happen.
she's a schizophrenic mother with no money on the public dole in fact who knocks back vodka every time a breeze blows her way.
yeah well lucy can't switch-hit. plan b. surgery to resect the tumor.
would he do it at 4.6?
this one does.
good morning dr. cuddy! love that outfit. says i'm professional but i'm still a woman. actually it sorta yells the second part.
gotta go. [ walks away ] those running noses aren't just gonna start walking on their own.
[ stops ] how long? maybe we could catch a movie.
i don't believe it. who came running to mommy?
[ realizes she's bluffing ] you have no idea what i'm talking about.
it's cameron. she found out about my birthday. i thought she told you and
oops. [ walks away; cuddy walks over and picks up phone ]
um hmm. [ reading from chart ] pulling the tongue icepacks on the throat hitting yourself the groin pinch. well you've certainly covered all the normal medical bases. uh how are you hitting yourself though? is it open hand or fist?
well that's how they teach it at harvard med. how hard though?
i'm sorry i missed that. could could you do that again? [ patient slaps himself again ] that's that's very good. [ to cuddy ] hiccups.
mmhhmmm i need to go peepee. [ to patient ] dial it up a notch and repeat. i'll be back. [ he leaves cuddy follows patient slaps himself again ]
ooh girl in the boys' bathroom. very dramatic. must be very important what you have to say to me. [ dries hands and face on paper towel ]
at a guess i'd say dr. house must be really really good <U+0096> why am i wasting him on hiccups? i wash before and after. [ walks over to urinal ]
[ over his shoulder ] do me a favor?
i was gonna say leave but that works.
only way to get the guy to do the surgery
i know <U+0096> to save lives. specifically doctors' lives and not just their lives but their lifestyles. wouldn't wanna operate on anyone really sick <U+0096> they might die and spoil our stats.
true. i got all focused on her right to live and forgot. you do what you think is right.
no. i didn't. and frankly i'm angry. which i'm guessing is the correct response. course i'll know better once you tell me what you're talking about.
oh. anger was a bad guess. well normally i'd put on a festive hat and celebrate the fact that the earth has circled the sun one more time. i really didn't think it was gonna make it this year but darnit if it wasn't the little planet that could all over again.
why are you here? to buy me a pony?
yeah well go scrub in.
not a word. some kind of mind game. she's waiting for me to crack.
yeah well [ luke storms past them followed by child services reps ]
[ staring after them ] yeah. i get that a lot. i don't think mom's crazy.
[ reading to lucy ] for in the old days though she had young men's praise and old men's blame among the poor both old and young gave her praise. [ he snaps the book shut and she wakes up ]
you called social services. it was you.
it's ok it's ok i get it. he'll have an easier time dealing with the system. sure he won't be with his real mother but his real mother's sick. someone needs to take care of him.
what would his future have been? taking you to chemo and back on the bus and even if the cancer's in complete remission he'll still have a mother who hears voices.
look what i do to him limpie. you said that. i checked the phone records <U+0096> only one call from this room. smart <U+0096> they charge you two bucks a call. it was to social services of the state of new jersey. you're his mother couldn't do it to him anymore. [ pause ] good for you.
on the small stuff yeah when to sleep what to drink no lemonade but i'll take some hemlock if you've got it.
but giving up your son because it's better for him <U+0096> it's so sane so rational. self-sacrifice is not a symptom of schizophrenia it excludes the diagnosis.
she's 36 years old when she first presents
the internist sends her to a shrink one shrink sends her to the next she tells them all she's not crazy the drugs don't work and why would they if she's not a head case? she got clearer when i took her off the psych meds. [ pauses at his office door ] you think i'm crazy.
i like to walk.
[ picking up telephone ] is that dr. jeffrey walters? hi. my name is greg house i'm a doctor oh is that the time? yeah i'm sorry my watch must have stopped. listen you treated a patient about eighteen months ago a woman named lucille palmeiro i wondered if you recalled running any tests [ fades as walters hangs up on him ] at all. [ tries again using a terrible english accent! ] oh how terribly foolish of me doctor is it that late? yes i'm calling from london you see must have got my times mixed up so [ another hangup ]
i have a headache. it's my only symptom. i go to see three doctors. the neurologist tells me it's an aneurysm the immunologist says i got hay fever the intensivist can't be bothered sends me to a shrink who tells me that i'm punishing myself cause i wanna sleep with my mommy.
pick your specialist you pick your disease. if it's not schizophrenia what else presents with psych symptoms?
very rare. nice. i like it.
well that's funny i thought i encouraged you to question
july 17 an appointment with a dr. carne.
carne is not a shrink. i looked him up he's an ophthalmologist. now why would she want her eyes checked?
yes it does. it also causes slight cirrhosis which dr. chase so eagerly attributed to alcohol. [ looks at them all ] so what are we still doing here???
lucy! [ she snaps awake ] i don't think you're crazy.
come on. [ they get her up move an eye scope around to the side of her bed ]
it's what i'd do.
that's ok we're just here for the music.
i heard a rumor.
really?
yes. you're welcome.
look. i don't care how you were living. i just wanted you out of my life. that's why i had dr. cuddy call social services.
you were right. it wasn't the dvt. it was the schizophrenia.
she's not nearly as interesting any more.
clinical depression. incredibly contagious. every time i'm around one of them i get blue.
great you got it all figured out. you don't need me.
well maybe if above mentioned doctors were interested in my opinion they would have asked for it.
no pain no gain. [gets in the elevator]
huh.
husband described her as being unusually irritable recently.
i didn't know it was possible for a woman to be unusually irritable. [elevator dings they get off]
what's the first thing you ask a doctor who's referring a patient?
not what?. why?
no but doctors do. why this patient what interests you? give me the chart.
i find your interest interesting.
true but not relevant. she's not depressed.
fever. clinical depression does not cause fever.
she's sick! dammit why didn't i think of that?
not the spleen. thank goodness we hired a neurologist! brain symptoms hmm could this be a brain problem?
very good.
has to be a tumor then.
partridge in a pear tree missed it too. redo the blood work and get a new mri with 2 millimeter cuts through the mesodiencephalic. [leaves the office calls out as he leaves] and check for evil stepmothers. this much sleep usually indicates poisoned apples.
anything else beside the shortness of breath?
you smoke?
exercise?
sounds fun. any history of heart disease in your family?
[pulls out a stethoscope] take a deep breath. been under a lot of stress lately?
you're probably just a little anemic but i'm going to do an ekg just to make sure.
no you can just pull that down in front. [she does so. he turns around to see that she is very well-endowed] good. lord. are those real?
they look pretty damn good.
that's so sweet. i'm afraid the cause of your problem could be staring us right in the face. actually i guess i'm the one doing the staring. of course i can't be sure i'd like to consult a colleague. he's actually somewhat of an expert in these matters. [picks up the phone] can i get a page on dr. wilson?
is a lie a lie if everybody knows it's a lie?
lie number one she did not do that for her husband she did that for herself. she thinks if she looks different she'll be different.
not to her husband. cosmetic surgery is so that everyone else will look at us differently. same reason you're wearing that tie.
last three months same five ties. thursday should be that paisley thing.
no its not. julie hates green. you bought that yourself. you want to look pretty. at work. [singsong] wilson's got a girlfriend
i want an ekg and blood tests including tox screen on mrs. exam room 1.
very tricky case. [to wilson] you love everybody. that's your pathology.
yes that's how a responsible doctor would waste his time in the situation.
a glioma not presenting on a contrast mri would have to be smaller than a grain of sand which does not a gravely ill person make.
does the husband care about her?
now way it also means she doesn't have lyme disease.
lyme disease initially presents with a rash. mr. clingy would have noticed.
pff. men.
she have any family history of breast cancer?
[to foreman] the brain but not the brain. clever huh?
no tumor?
you don't. those twelve percent no treatment. they were too busy looking for the tumor right till they put the patient in the ground.
treat the symptoms. iv immunoglobulin
eventually it'll get bigger. then it'll be really easy to find. one of you needs to check out where she works.
cause the husband's not sick.
foreman you do it.
it's what i do has it gotten worse lately?
really. well that rules out the race thing. cause you were just as black last week.
you gave sedatives to a patient who's already sleeping 18 hours a day?
where's wilson?
there is a simple explanation. maybe she really has bugs under her skin.
that's what the worsening of symptoms after immunotherapy would suggest.
if a patient throws up on your shoes do you clean up most of it?
in the final stage of african trypanosomiasis almost all the parasites are inside the brain. it's possible they wouldn't show on smears.
i'm just saying it fits the symptoms.
or i'm just saying she could have got it from a transfusion.
[glares at her] okay
we rejected lyme disease because the couple would have noticed a rash but a wet hacking cough is just going to slip right by?
two lousy ideas. unfortunately they're better than all the other ideas. tularemia. bizarre. very nice. that's why i ride you. [goes into his own office turns on the tv]
foreman got the gang testing for tularemia?
probably inconclusive but worth doing. so what's her name? when do i get to meet her?
your lips say no your shoes say yes.
solid yet stylish. a professional woman would be impressed. i'm thinking accountant actuary maybe. it's somebody in the hospital. patient? no chemo's not sexy. daughter of the patient? she would certainly have the neediness you need.
very ethical. of course most married men would say they don't date at all.
perfect.
you always do. it's part of your charm.
nope doesn't ring a bell.
[to wilson] she's all upset because we paid more attention to the other girl. you check out her ass i've got the chest.
[to wilson] you check her ekg results before she left the other day?
you're the responsible one.
[to cuddy] where is she?
i was right.
surprisingly no. but your ekg shows a slightly decreased heart rate.
you told me you hadn't changed your diet or exercise were you lying?
does your husband have high blood pressure?
yeah.. see if you're gonna repeat everything i say this conversation is gonna take twice as long.
he do a lot of cooking at home?
did you happen to notice a slightly odd taste to the oatmeal lately?
that it looks like your husband stirred in some of his blood pressure medication along with brown sugar.
no nothing like that. he just doesn't want to have sex with you. [mrs. campbell looks stunned] decreased sex drive is one of the most common side effects of the beta blockers he's been taking. i'm guessing he figured if you're both frigid no harm no foul. you should have gotten him the sweater.
fine. but if you're still concerned about the shortness of breath i'd start making your own breakfast. [opens the door to leave]
well if you care about your husband at all i'd do the responsible thing: buy yourself some condoms go to a bar find [seems to realize something] huh. [leaves]
lab tests inconclusive?
no. too bad. luckily i have the answer. [pause]
thanks for asking. the life itself. sex. anything that can be transmitted via the blood can be transmitted through sex.
it's not without precedent.
a portuguese man was diagnosed three years ago with cns affected sleeping sickness. his only connection with africa was through a girlfriend who served under the military in angola.
the journal de instituto de higiene e medicina tropical. you don't read portuguese?
i'm pretty sure that's what it said. either that or it was an ad for sunglasses.
ooh stymied again. your logic is bulletproof.
because?
because?
or?
[to cameron] find out which it is.
no i want you to be polite and let her die. [cameron gives him a look] actually i don't want you to ask her anything. foreman take the husband chase take the wife.
we all formulate questions based on the answers we want to hear.
did you know she's been trying to get pregnant?
after you got so freaked about the sick babies a while ago i figured that was your thing. but you've never been prescribed folic acid and you can't lose a baby if you've never been pregnant.
you coughed the other day i was concerned.
to-may-to to-mah-to
alright then. they say no cheating we cross off sleeping sickness. any new ideas? ok we go with foreman's tularemia. start her on iv-chloramphenicol 25 milligrams per kilogram four times a day. good night. [leaves]
there's only one way a tularemia patient goes into a coma while on iv-chloramphenicol.
and then there was one. patient comes in because she's sleeping too much. it takes ten doctors and a coma to diagnose sleeping sickness.
well the obvious explanation?
does seem unlikely go away. [he enters elise's room]
[lifts elise's arms drops them]
checking for lymphadenopathy. and waiting for you.
i'm dr. house. your wife has human african trypanosomiasis. [ed looks puzzled] sleeping sickness.
nope.
i believe you.
the treatment for this disease is a drug that's fatal on its own ten percent of the time. [ed looks rather scared] which is why i need your written consent before i can legally prescribe it.
i don't ask why patients lie i just assume they all do.
to protect you because she didn't think it mattered. it just seemed easier because that's what people do. now if you're absolutely certain that your wife has never had sex with anyone but you since you've been married then i'm wrong. but if you think there's a possibility that just one time she wasn't perfect one weekend you're out of town one fight when she ran to a friend one stupid christmas party then you need to allow me to start treatment. because if we don't she's gonna be dead by tomorrow morning. [ed thinks it over] do you trust your wife that much?
i'll start the treatment.
and you do?
and you need to tell me that?
i believe you. what i don't believe is that it'll be just once.
you certainly love saying it. [wilson laughs in a very annoyed way] i'm sorry. i know you love your wife. you loved all your wives. probably still do. in fact you probably still love all the women you ever loved who weren't your wives. [they stop just outside the lab]
yeah. and you're the good guy.
as long as you're trying to be good you can do whatever you want.
so between us we can do anything. we can rule the world!
mixing up some margaritas? mines a double senorita. that's portuguese you know.
uh-oh. what's going on?
turn around. [she does she looks very sad indeed.] it's a very sad thing an un-calibrated centrifuge. it makes me cry too.
ok. [long pause]
why?
at that age the chances of a marriage lasting--
i'm sorry... but that's not the whole story. it's a symptom not your illness. thyroid cancer would have been diagnosed at least a year before his death you knew he was dying when you married him. must have been when you first met him. and you married him anyway. you can't be that good a person and well adjusted.
because you wind up crying over centrifuges.
blood pressure?
you give her dopamine?
we would have expected your wife's condition to show some improvement by now but it hasn't. it's going the other way.
i need to know who you had the affair with. he has to be notified so he can get treatment as well. [pause] why did you lie to us? you knew your life was at stake.
we all make mistakes and we all pay a price. [pause elise sniffles] i need that name.
that's the way calculus presents.
you know the kid?
mom real good looking?
then it's a mystery. not why he's sick but why you care so much. the gift shop's open buy him a card.
boys love fart jokes. find him one with a good fart joke. [pops a vicodin] he's a teenager. it's drugs. tell those er geniuses to give him charcoal and naloxone so you'll stop following me.
you don't care about the kid. you just find his illness intriguing.
and you don't care about him.
me neither. [about the notes] means we'll be objective
wouldn't account for the bradycardia.
wouldn't account for the whacked out. so what's the differential for the negative tox screen?
that never happens.
copy machine toner. same punch as ghb. a little pricier way more dangerous. on the other hand it is legal. [to foreman] i want you to go to his house and find his stash. betcha know all the good hiding spots.
[to cameron] better go with him in case he gets high. [to chase] how much atropine is the kid getting?
make it 2. in case he needs his heart later on.
i am extremely disappointed. i send you out for exciting new designer drugs and you come back with tomato sauce. [to foreman about his shoes] betcha paid twice as much i got mine online.
i'm not sure about gastroenteritis but mental confusion? bring it on! [eats some of the sauce]
[pulls a face] delicious.
.i notice he didn't try to save me
i was. kid just started seizing. not a symptom of food-born toxins.
so what would make him seize in addition to all his other delightful symptoms.
or organophosphates. organochlorines.
already told the nurses.
that's your complaint? you major symptom?
and you figure that enjoying cute butts is a sign of disease?
aha.
people are always mixing us up.
no! no that won't be necessary.
but i am going to admit you to the hospital for tests.
and you're just insufferable. your mother has had a sudden personality change she should be checked out. i'll have a nurse come to admit her. i'm too handsome to do paperwork.
oh damnit you caught me. went with the weak stuff just trying to save a little money.
excellent i'm sure. it's the us army be all you can be. the point is what are the kid's chances without it?
i assume minimal at best is your stiff upper lip british way of saying no chance in hell?
you put the queen on your money. you're british. - [to foreman] call your professor.
by the time they get here we better know which one we need.
well the mom had homemade tomato sauce. call me crazy but i'm thinking maybe homemade tomatoes?
kid's out there spraying pretty girl walks by hormones raging spray can goes off in his face...
i'll have lunch.
psych ward's upstairs.
what can i say chicks with no teeth turn me on.
and that's ageism.
impressive. [phone rings]
okay i'll get chase on it.
get a court order. unless you want to see someone killed by sheer irrationality.
actually that's the definition.
she's risking her son's life based on a teenager's claim that he washed something. how mentally incompetent can you get?
listen have your harvard law dog whip up some high-grade legal-sounding psycho babble. temporary insanity brought on by acute panic distress syndrome i don't care. we have to give him the hydrolase.
not the kid let's ask him. oh i forgot we can't. he's dying.
[to nurse] goodbye. [to ms. davis from the paper] i margo davis have been informed of the risks which may arise from my refusal of advised medical care. i here by release-
i work for hospital. <U+0096>the princeton plainsboro teaching hospital its employees agents and otherwise from any adverse medical conditions resulting from my refusal. it is not the hospital's fault if my son kicks off.
i punched up the language; mostly for clarification. i understand my doctors consider my decision to be completely idiotic-
-but i am convinced that i know more than they do. i took a biology course in high school so yeah. besides i enjoy controlling every single aspect of my son's life even if it means his death. sign here please. i brought a pen.
i'm the doctor who's trying to save your son. you're the mom who's letting him die. clarification. it's a beautiful thing.
she rethought her position. start him on the hydrolase.
matt's next-door neighbor by any chance?
how much are you giving him?
make it ninety.
what the heck? do it anyway. he's a calculus student he probably likes having a brain i'll have foreman do it.
yeah but the mom wants to get rid of you. and you know me i'm a people-pleasing kind of guy.
she went to the principal. told cuddy you did drugs in high school. this is gonna go on your permanent record.
she also used the word slacker. want to come in smoke a little weed watch some mtv? [enters office. chase isn't far behind. cameron is waiting for them]
you sure chi didn't sneak out of matt's tomato patch? maybe they sniffed disulfoton together to get high.
they managed to get poisoned together; they must have something in common.
how do they get to school?
could you step outside a minute?
because you irritate me.
fine. mrs. adams have you had any recent sexual activity?
because you have tested positive for syphilis.
i don't think it's the first time mom's heard this diagnosis.
when did you get it?
which suppressed it. in your case for 60 years. but now it's back and the spirochetes that cause syphilis are eating away at your brain cells.
it's not as revolting as chlamydia; that's got seepage. and it's the 21st century. we've got flying cars talking dogs and penicillin. high-dose regimen for two weeks you're cured.
yeah well pinch yourself.
you'll be fine. just feed that cranky kid.
do you have the hydrolase for ethyl parathion?
you're getting good at this god-like doctor thing. why don't you talk her out of it?
only one man left in the bullpen and he throws like a girl.
give her the high hard one.
i guess matt's mom won't nominate us for any doctor of the year awards.
except their symptoms. given their severity in fact their cardiac symptoms are getting worse much faster than all their other ones what does that tell us?
they were admitted at 8:45 and 11:00. when were they poisoned?
so matt was poisoned before 7:15. before he got on the bus.
what do teenage boys do in the morning? besides the obvious?
do they use the same acne cream?
could be contaminated. shaving cream?
he sweats.
these people have pets?
ok. go to their houses check for anything that could have touched their skin between the time they got up and the time they got on the bus. and i'm running low on tomato sauce.
i sent you home.
i'm sorry but the fact that the sexual pleasure center of your cerebral cortex has been over-stimulated by spirochetes is a poor basis for a relationship. learned that one the hard way.
yes.
no but it'll kill you.
do you think i would have given you this if it would stop you from flirting with me?
the spirochetes will die off. but the little pieces of your cerebral cortex that have been destroyed won't grow back. you're brain damaged. doomed to feeling good for the rest of your life.
georgia!
yeah
[cell phone goes off] yeah?
what about shampoo?
what about laundry detergent? maybe they both washed their clothes this morning?
that's how you got in right? jail house diaries?
bring in the detergent. [hangs up]
soaked into their clothes and got absorbed into their skin [they enter chi's room. his parents are there] hi look the clothes your son wore today. he washed them this morning right?
nice respectful asian kid does the laundry.
then i'm guessing he washed them last night without you knowing.
what about matt's clothes? they new?
davis.
and yet the label isn't faded in the slightest. fake old. 100 dollars for the homeless look. what kids aren't pretentious in england?
that is a question for the ages. in the meantime get these tests in.
right your wife does. she wants you to feel nice and comfortable.
so your skin absorbs a little dye the odd chemical here and there
judging by the self importance of your strut you have identified the chemical in question.
hit him with the hydrolase.
mighty mom said no. she's gonna feel like million bucks when chi lives and her son dies. send cameron. she's the only one who's managed to talk her into anything.
thought i'd hang out in case you change your mind and i can give matt the medicine right away. don't worry i've got time.
they will. maybe tomorrow maybe the day after. takes time to review faxed records. then they'll probably tell you they can't make a decision based on faxed records. [points to the tv] this is suzy. she's never gonna marry him no money.
same reason as last time. you wanna see how the other kid does first that's ok. might help you. but there's a real good chance that-
a little blunt i was gonna say run out of time or just sort of let my voice trail off [mom's cell goes off]
they haven't seen him. can't make a decision based on-
you fooled her with that?
spilled pesticides on the pants didn't bother to clean up. so why are you still here? why aren't you out there making up with the joyful mother?
no reason at all you don't care about her or her son.
oops.
i want in.
he's a musician? that paralysis thing guy can't walk for two years and nobody knows why that seems mildly interesting.
tell that to the rest of his bowling team.
but that not walking thing that could turn into something serious!
know all about it. multiple treatments multiple surgeries. making real progress. fixed everything but the legs.
like i always say there's no i in team. there is a me though if you jumble it up. [they leave her office.]
i know. i did accidentally glance at his resume before i hired him.
he must have spoken to foreman's parole officer.
i respect that. i'm not going to get in his way.
it's pneumonia he can handle it. guy's already paralyzed how badly can he screw it up?
not yet. you gonna fire me?
oh this is fun. [chase smiles.]
how about the paralysis?
well you certainly are boss. like a wet tongue sticks to dry ice. [chase and cameron sit.]
lou gehrig's disease. it's a lovely diagnosis. they make movies about it. no tests no treatment. it's a disease of exclusion <U+0096>
i haven't. [he gets up and takes the board marker from foreman.] what else could it be?
excellent. [he starts to write but foreman takes the marker away from him.]
uncommon but it fits. it's also treatable. did hamilton try putting the guy on ivig?
well let's do an mri of our own. [chase and cameron get up.]
it's a death sentence.
[takes headphones off] he rhymes with dinner?
oh. that makes more sense. you tell him it might not be als?
well no wonder he signed. who wouldn't?
great. if it was my case i'd be adding a little ivig to the mix.
that's my story and i'm sticking to it.
dnr means do not resuscitate not do not treat. you do nothing it doesn't matter which one of us is right. [he puts his headphones back on.] and hang on to that dnr. that signature could be worth a lot of money real soon. [foreman leaves.]
you're talking about your penis in the third person.
separate vacations? that'd be a drag for one of you. i don't think you need the pills. i think you have a conflict of medications. you need to up your insulin to chocolate chip ice cream levels.
yeah you remember. that's the stuff you take for the diabetes that you forgot to tell the nurse about. your hands. no hair which means nerve damage. and your shoes look about two sizes too small which means you've lost sensation in your feet. and then there's your pants.
no they tell me you're an idiot. powdered sugar on the right pant leg. based on the two napkins in your right pocket i'm willing to bet it's not your first donut of the day. [house's beeper beeps it says code blue <U+0096> john henry giles <U+0096> rm. 324. house gives willie a prescription.]
sure why not? if you've got heart disease from ignoring the diabetes they'll kill you. otherwise you two have a fun weekend. [house leaves as willie looks at the prescription skeptically.]
his stats are in the 70s. how long has he been like this?
well why aren't you doing <U+0096>
you put him on the ivig?
so undo it! chase!
nobody killed him! he's not dead! chase intubate him!
bag.
bag! [he grabs the bag himself and starts to ventilate. cora walks in.] he had a bad reaction to some medicine we gave him.
the ivig made him worse which means multifocal motoneuropathy was a bad diagnosis. okay what's really wrong with him?
everyone knows what's wrong with me. what's wrong with him is much more interesting.
to intubate or not to intubate that is the big ethical question. actually i was hoping we could avoid it maybe just practice some medicine.
-- if the patient is competent to make it if his thyroid numbers aren't making him sad.
why did he sign that dnr?
no he signed the dnr cause he didn't want a slow and painful death from als. what was happening to him had nothing to do with his als.
technically your case. you screwed up. is that what this is about? looking bad in front of your old boss?
fine. i'll never do it again.
all the more reason this debate is pointless. [foreman leaves.]
his lungs are worse. any theories? [cameron looks to see where foreman went.] oh i'm sure he just went to the little boys' room. come on people.
wouldn't likely hit both lungs.
cuddy sent me a stripper again? ah love that woman. so thoughtful.
well it's not great but it's better than als. at least it's treatable.
cameron test the blood for c-anca.
he has blood left in the lab just add on the c-anca. [to chase] foreman's still got you doing bronchioscopic suctioning for the pneumonia?
well while you're down in his lungs grab a biopsy. we'll need it to confirm wegener's. and move the patient to the second floor icu.
it's right above the clinic. i'm pretty sure it's 50 feet in any direction. it's nice having a court order saying you don't have to work clinic duty. [he goes and sits in his office.]
[yelling] dr. cuddy!
you paged me.
his bed is behind that wall. the plaintiff's. i can't you know come any closer.
can we get the lecture over with because i've got a actually i've got nothing to do. take your time.
you don't have a problem with what i did?
great. any chance you could help me run some tests?
you can talk to him.
yeah. i need a lawyer.
a medical tube saving his life.
i'm sorry your honor. i was way out of line. [he sits.]
no.
time.
i don't want to get near him.
are you done or do you have more references to 1980s fads? i'm trying to listen to this. [he turns back to the topic at hand tugging at his shirt collar.]
my staff are idiots. i'm sure you know what it's like your honor.
your honor <U+0096>
i have a medical issue.
it doesn't. do you have any history of heart disease in your family? [giles' attorney scoffs.]
your fingers. they show signs of clubbing which indicate a health problem. remember bart giamotti? same thing just dropped dead one day. please see your doctor.
of course i'm sorry. [he sits.]
i watched matlock last night. [he pulls off his tie.]
neither did i.
every family has some history of heart disease.
start him on cytoxan.
well unfortunately i think we've exhausted all the tests we can do in the capacity as the doctors he doesn't want doing tests on him.
we'll know i'm right if he starts walking.
the medicine's in the pharmacy patient's immobilized in the icu. sounds like a simple geography problem.
uh i'm dr. house i'm <U+0096>
i've started him on cytoxan.
why?
there's an error rate marty.
no it's mine. eric.
oh this is wonderful. [they stop chatting.] but before you guys break out the oil i should point out you can't pull the plug; i have a court order.
i have the right to face my accuser. judge said so.
he doesn't have to die.
if it's wegener's his lungs won't be able to handle it. as soon as they pull that plug he'll die.
it's not wegener's. wrong again. [he walks off.]
the real question is why is he still alive?
yeah seem to be doing that a lot lately. people keep living because of my mistakes.
assuming this is a progression of his paralysis.
yes his arm is paralyzed. yes his legs are paralyzed. why is everyone so gung-ho to connect those two conditions? you could think i'm wrong but that's no reason to stop thinking?
nope not good enough.
not interested in why. let's get an mr-angiogram for an embolic stroke.
they dropped the court order.
good point but i can go within 50 feet of him now.
sure. that makes sense. you hate me for saving your life. in fairness to your side you were also dying because of me so <U+0096>
that's what's interesting. your thyroid was low but not low enough to cause depression.
those things are fun. okay life sucks. your life sucks more than most. it's not as bad as some which is depressing all by itself. but do me a favor. just let me find out what's wrong with you. and if you still want to kill yourself i'll give you a hand. that sound fair?
and that's all you are? a musician?
really? apparently you know me better than i know you.
that's why god made microwaves.
yeah. [he walks to the door and opens it. suddenly he walks back and starts to undo the cords connecting john to the monitors.]
it's not over for me. either you're gonna call the cops again or we're doing this. [he starts to wheel john's bed out the door.] if you wanna die you can do it just as easily inside an mri machine. [at this point the nurses at the desk are looking at house like he's crazy. hee!]
so what's the verdict?
do it. see what happens to his arm.
his style involves humility. [small pause] another difference in our styles: i don't care much for apologies. you can go.
do you mean genuine humility? you know with all the self-doubt and the self-questioning or hamilton's polite patronizing aw shucks humility?
thank you. and humility is an important quality. especially if you're wrong a lot.
of course when you're right self-doubt doesn't help anybody does it? [his beeper goes off.] we gotta go.
[mutters to foreman] congratulations [aloud] why marty?
the phone works. next time you want to make me feel all warm and fuzzy leave a message. [he taps john's leg.] don't get me wrong i'm overcome with joy.
what?
what you gonna charge me with assault again?
he now has feeling all the way up to calf. this is the way medicine evolved. patients sometimes get better. you have no idea why but unless you give a reason they won't pay you. anybody notice if there's a full moon?
no i'm saying let's rule out the lunar god and go from there.
it's one of ours.
easy. we stop all of them.
and the rest? steroids antibiotics anti-inflammatories they're toxic if we leave him on all of them.
yeah to his own funeral.
true. and then we'll add our medications back one at a time. if he gets better then we'll have our answer.
then we're in trouble. not as much as he is. i suppose that was your point.
don't care.
if his stuff was helping the guy would be playing tennis six months ago. it's our round of treatment that's helping.
yeah. [we see that they're watching general hospital on the portable tv.] my old philosophy used to be live and let live but i'm taking this needlepoint class and they gave us these really big pillows.
that's a very tiny pillow.
can it wait for the commercial marty? say hi to my friend jimmy.
seriously commercial's in about five minutes.
only if we're watching in the bathtub.
forget it. and if foreman tells you what john henry used to be on <U+0096>
nope. make him live out every day of his two-year contract.
not yet.
you're a polite twit but you're not an idiot.
wait a second. you're not an idiot. you need to know what medications i've stopped because
he's getting worse. [he whacks john's leg with a clipboard. nothing.] [to foreman] right now you still work for me. come on!
no feeling no wiggling. the bad news is john henry's back where he started. the good news is hamilton looks bad.
what was the first thing we put him on?
well put him back on them. give them 24 hours see what happens.
sure hope not. i didn't much like that lawyer. and get an mri.
well obviously something is different now. do it again. chase take care of the scan. cameron put him on the steroids. [to foreman] we should probably talk huh?
i checked him out. he's a great doctor. you think he's better than i am?
answer the question. it's not going to change my opinion of myself. might affect my opinion of you but that shouldn't affect your opinion of yourself. now i'm getting confused. if you think he's a better doctor than i am then you should take the job. otherwise you should get him to buy you two or three more nostalgic lunches and politely decline.
oh how do i abuse you?
i hold you accountable so what?
that is not what he does!
he never said you were forgiven. i was there he said it wasn't your fault.
so it was. you took a chance you did something great. you were wrong but it was still great. you should feel great that it was great. you should feel like crap that it was wrong. that's the difference between him and me. he thinks you do your job and what will be will be. i think that what i do and what you do matters. he sleeps better at night. he shouldn't. [cameron and chase come running in.]
causing his paralysis.
well we missed it too. cause it wasn't there before.
no. it was on the spine it wasn't on the mri. [he points to the scan from a few days ago.] same anatomic location.
well what is there?
or something that looks like nothing.
revealing the avm which has always been there hiding behind its own swelling. we remove that he'll walk again.
fifty bucks says i can beat you to the curb. [john laughs.]
i can't do anything else. [he takes the vicodin.] you're much more easily amused when you can walk.
wow.
i'm in pain.
oh don't worry about it. you'll be jogging before you need a second one. [foreman comes out a side door.] see you tomorrow eric.
foreman is wrong? the neurologist is wrong about a neurological problem?
so you figure he's not being objective
both of which foreman saw?
whoah whoah whoah back up there big fella. foreman's the guy you want to take a swing at.
[starts to look interested] that's not even close to being true. something else. something personal. [pauses] give me the file. looks like this will be fun.
glad you could join us eric. what's the differential for a twitch in the wrist?
the big question you're missing it all of you. [he drops jane's smelly bag on the table.]
who is she?
do i need a better reason?
[dumps contents of smelly bag on table everyone turns away in disgust] the only thing we know for sure about jane doe is that her name isn't jane doe. which means no medical history. allergies medication previous diagnoses treatment <U+0096> we have no baseline no context for medical treatment.
[holds up a sweater] vomit. still moist. [sniffs] what do you think - a couple of days old? [puts it in chase's face]
yeah. and here's the big finish [licks fingers]
salty. chemical imbalance.
or high calcium. or it's a coincidence. the point is we don't know anything.
the mri can wait. hang a banana bag give her 24 hours to correct the electrolyte imbalance we'll take it from there.
at the moment how much you don't want me to take it. that's pretty fascinating.
really? sounds exactly like something i'd do.
we'll surgically remove the pin then do the mri does that sound good?
dr. foreman a neurologist believes this woman has a brain tumor.
[glares at foreman] hey don't ever apologize for a medical opinion. [to cuddy] if he's right we don't do this test the patient dies. now i realize that you have a specialty of your own but does yours have anything to do with the brain? [nods at foreman] his does.
hey! he knows more homeless people than any of us. [cuddy and foreman don't look amused] go check out the hood dawg.
[enters] not wearing a coat in this weather. that is so wrong.
[picks one up] she sign them? her name would be a start.
[holds up comic book and looks at it] philadelphia. look at that skyline! it's very evocative. the chrysler building.
mmm i'm getting philly. and that cactus well that's a smashed car <U+0096> car accident.
water <U+0096> well water's october right?
on the page number 22 so that's october 2nd 2002. ergo the patient was in a car accident two years ago last october.
[squints] broke her arm i think. they fixed it <U+0096> with this. [holds up metal pin]
surgical pin. better than a wallet. serial numbers in case of recall tied to a patient's name.
you didn't think i was going to do it to save your sorry ass did you? [sounds of a fax coming through] you might want to take a look at that. her name is victoria matson at least that's the one she used then. any hospital with the record of treating her should be sending that information.
and we still think there's nothing wrong with her?
we almost killed her <U+0096> that's different. and we know who she is.
put her back on it. she cheers up; she might stop biting people
actually it would. neoplastic syndrome associated with the cancer could cause her to twitch like a bunny on crystal meth. ultrasound her ovaries.
no. foreman was wrong. i'm starting to wonder about that guy's medical chops.
[fake sneeze] you know i think i might be coming down with something. hate to give it to you guys. sorry. [starts walking toward exit]
[turns] bye-bye. [keeps walking]
this stuff's pretty good. calendrica works for the counseled genius. bad guy's mr. fury fairly generic no special skills but apparently very well organized. think you work hard try ruling the universe.
we've got the flowing dress the ring. think the patient was married? maybe it was a bad break up maybe he dumped her cause she was on drugs.
nope. question is why don't you? [foreman looks away] i hate to cite a clich<e9> but <U+0096> dad on the streets?
they're both living on the streets?
so who pissed you off?
your turn you gonna tell me why this case?
so she's just another sick person the kindly dr. wilson has made sure doesn't get lost in the big ugly system.
you're giving two craps.
time for girl scout cookies already?
[makes big show out of stifling pretend sneeze] okay.
[huge loud sneeze]
my specialty.
it's all about the giving back. [cuddy walks off house turns to students] good old cuddy. always thinking. she assign you a patient to interview? [reaches for pills]
then why are you still here?
had to get away from those students so i faked a page. [flips through file] foreman's parents happily married 40 years.
keinahora. so why does he hate homeless people? if it's an uncle or a grandparent you'd think he'd use it in his college application essay. family struggles beats a 4.0 gpa any day.
maybe he's just a snob.
i don't need to watch the oc but it makes me happy.
wilson james. boy wonder oncologist. you know him?
why can't both be true? come on.
unless it's not cancer.
well hard not to <U+0096> nothing funnier than cancer. but what if it's a tuberculoma. she's living out on the streets breathing all kinds of crap 24/7. the odds are she's got tb why can't she have a nice benign growth to go with it?
you're right. it's not even close. start her on inh rifampicin and streptomycin.
and what is the treatment for advanced ovarian cancer?
i didn't know the biopsy was back.
[leans back in chair] 105
[looks at test results] so <U+0096> we're right about the diagnosis and the treatment for that diagnosis is killing her. perfect.
poach. better metaphor.
[turning to face them] okay you two grab some scalpels and settle this like doctors. send blood and urine cultures and get a chest x-ray. and fine take her off prozac and put her on bromocryptin for the serotonin syndrome.
continue.
and you're calling attention to your bosom by wearing a low-cut top. [looks up] oh i'm sorry i thought we were having a state-the-obvious contest. i'm competitive by nature.
nope. i'm supposed to be teaching you. if i can do that without listening more power to me.
[interrupts] this guy's supposed to have universal power over all of gravity; how come his hair won't stay down? that's just stupid.
hard to believe that one patient could slip past cuddy and get herself admitted with a sprained wrist. two seems almost impossible - what room?
patients lie. but usually only one lie at a time; how much does she weigh?
poundage ladies and by the by what color is her nose?
[pager goes off] almost nothing. she's either under 90 pounds or she has a red nose. i gotta go.
that would be telling. [looks at students and smiles] oh i am just too nice. it starts with c'. [drops medical dictionary on desk as he leaves]
i assume there's a positive coming.
well meningitis is nice and simple. get her in isolation and start her on ceftriaxone. either she gets better or she dies. [ducklings walk toward door] let me know which one happens!
wrong coat. the cape's in the closet i had it cleaned.
you gonna save her?
you've been reading. my how you've changed.
do you even know what that is or are you just guessing everything that starts with c'?
cacchi <U+0096> c-a-c- she's going alphabetically.
it sets off my eyes. [smiles and enters room with patient] hi jodi i'm dr. house. what brings you to the hospital?
how did that happen?
how horrifying.
[turns to students]
no her wrist really does hurt.
of course you are. you have no idea what happened. you have no memory. [house exits room with students] korsakoff's syndrome. her brain is damaged by excessive drinking or insufficient diet; pretty obviously the latter. she has no new memories no new ideas can't even process that idea. so her brain fills the gaps as best it can using visual clues. the horse on your shirt led her to the riding accident and the surf scene on your clipboard led her to the beach.
i didn't say c'. or did i? lesson to be learned <U+0096> treat everybody as if they have korsakoff's we all lie anyway. give her thiamine right away she'll bounce back pretty quickly. and then get her to eat some cake and ice cream.
yes?
hi! jodi i'm dr. house. what happened to your wrist?
see? it's like it never happened. perfect forgiveness.
her heart rate dropped when you administered the adenosine.
it's still meningitis.
start the treatment. [leaves room]
you should read my reports. i make up stuff all the time. what really happened?
wow. that is a great looking gun. [close up on policeman's belt]
it's so cool looking. what does it do? fire about 60000 volts? at least that's what it would take to jack someone's heart up to 150s.
fine. [reaches into jacket] don't tell me. tell my friend ben franklin. [holds up $100 bill then sets it on the counter] i watch a lot of cop shows.
the good news is the heart rate thing's not connected to her condition.
well that brings us to the bad news. the cop tasered her.
the first time he hit her in the thigh and she just kept going like it was nothing. right about here. [he marks the spot. victoria doesn't move; house pokes her with a needle.] she didn't feel the taser. [pulls down sheets and pokes her toe]
yeah in that one spot.
i don't think so. [takes swab of victoria's mouth]
is that where she bit you? [close up of foreman's bandaged forearm]
can't get angry if you don't feel anything.
first there's localized numbness then sensitivity to light disorientation paranoia ineffectiveness of sedatives and then hydrophobia. fear of water. [machine starts up]
yeah. that's because non-homeless people when they get bitten they get shots.
a day maybe two. [turns to foreman] and if you don't get your shot in say the next three hours i'm going to have to make another affirmative action hire.
no. you were wearing rain boots today but you were parked in the underground garage so the only reason you'd need boots was if you were hitting the streets i followed you.
yeah. i had some follow up questions. i've met your parents and your brother <U+0096>
why wouldn't you tell me <U+0096>
why not?
well that's relevant.
what lie are they telling you? [pharmacist gestures for him to wait.]
come on.
hmmm. that's a tough one. if only we had some way to communicate with another part of the building. [he picks up the phone for the pharmacist cameron walks up.]
internal bleeding after a car accident wow that's shocking! [to pharmacist] let me talk to shipping i speak their language.
[to cuddy who is at the clinic desk] your hospital doesn't have my pain medication.
right the bleed caused the crash. blood got on the road it got all slippery. [to the room] anyone here got drugs? [everyone looks at him one clinic patient raises his hand]
dad loved that.
don't talk.
well thank god you took control.
he must have inherited it. he's gonna die. my condolences.
give her back the file; you have bigger problems to tend to like my meds.
he's got meningitis.
artificial heart valve.
get everyone in my office.
kid's gonna be dead in a matter of days if we don't figure out why his red blood cells are disintegrating so differential diagnosis people.
no. if it's environmental he'll get better just from staying here.
okay so it's infection lupus drugs or cancer.
why not? great meeting. [he starts to leave.]
my leg gave us till 11:15. i'll talk to wilson about lymphoma [to cameron] ana for lupus [to chase] radioimmunoassay for drugs [to foreman] and you you test for whatever you thought it was. [he leaves.] i've got a date with a pharmacist.
come on come on come on come on [as soon as house gets the bottle he dry-swallows a couple pills. cuddy catches up to him on his way out the clinic doors.
like what laughter? meditation? got a guy who can fix my third chakra?
if the pills ran my life i'd agree with you but it's my leg busy calendaring what i can't do.
right i never had an infarction in my leg no dead muscle no nerve damage. doesn't even hurt. [he presses the button for the elevator] actually it kind of tickles. the chicks dig this. [raises cane] better than a puppy.
oh that's way too much! moderation is the key. unless there's pain.
cause you're twice as annoying.
about how big your ass has gotten lately? not me i defend it. you got back. [they walk into the full elevator.]
no i don't want to go a week without the drugs it'll hurt.
well i guess we'll never know.
no way! i love the clinic.
pills don't make me high. they make me neutral.
you're on mister. [he throws the pills to cuddy who looks positively giddy.]
nothing?
yeah i got that from the nothing. where's his hematocrit?
[as the ducklings enter the room] polite for a dying kid. [he starts to limp off.]
i'm fine.
forget the eye. tell him to use the other one to look on the bright side. the clot tells us something. it could help us figure out what he has which could mean he gets to live. [the three of them are staring chase openly curious foreman with disgust cameron with something like pity.] differential diagnosis people. how does internal bleeding suddenly start clotting?
this is true. but why are you the one saying it? what are you doing here? i thought we ruled out cancer.
well go see cuddy. she needs a friend.
that's why you're here? she wants you to keep an eye on me make sure i don't cheat.
i'm fine.
you ever been shot?
withdrawal symptoms. not applicable. the only side-effects i'm going to have are some pain and thirty days of freedom. [pause. interestingly enough now cameron looks disgusted.] am i the only one who's concerned about a dying kid? if it's not lupus what else?
okay what hides from a gallium scan? [he turns to see a beautiful woman stretching in his office! ooookay. the rest of the ducklings continue the conversation as though they don't see her.]
i'm sorry i wasn't paying attention. what happened?
great. echocardiogram for the heart and iv antibiotics for the infection stat. [chase cameron and foreman leave wilson walks over. now there's another person who can see the woman. yes indeed.]
is it my birthday?
i'm not lonely my leg hurts.
she's five hundred dollars an hour minimum.
the envious jealous i-never-got-any-in-high-school kind of logic hello!
because she's beautiful i should do it? what kind of pathetic logic is that?
hi. listen i'm i'm sure you're really good at whatever it is you do <U+0096>
hey no let go of my hand.
ow! ow ah ah. oh my god. [woman looks happy. and if wilson's looks could take people's clothes off this show wouldn't be tv-14.] bueno.
thank you.
i had a massage.
i'm fine.
never met a diagnostic study i couldn't refute.
so double the dosage. 70mg.
oh you're right. save the kidney. the guy we transplant it into will be grateful.
nothing we can do about his eye.
read the memo.
if the artery expands the clot might move out on its own. that's very creative. why didn't you mention this before?
you should have. [as chase walks away house leans back against the wall.]
what's wrong?
would not have caused this.
it's not drugs! his liver is shutting down.
it means he's all better. he's ready to go home.
what do you think it means? you can't live without a liver he's dying!
bum leg what's yours?
it was a dumb question.
you're right it wasn't.
[walking in] that's what they said about manson. do you want to continue talking about me or should we discuss what the liver damage tells us? [no answer.] i was born in a log cabin in illinois <U+0096>
it's moving too fast. could be hepatitis-e.
its history. since he's been in and out of the country four times in the last year
no. i think the lupus is way more likely.
no we should rule out hep-e.
i said lupus was way more likely but if we treat for lupus and it is hep-e.
exactly.
yeah i went to medical school too. start him on solumedrol. (sp?)
not as much. goldilocks people. it won't hurt him so much that it'll kill him and it won't hurt him so little that we can't tell. it'll hurt him just right. and if it does nothing
now watch me do it while drinking a glass of water.
you think he'll go for that?
no. i want you to lie.
because he trusts you.
accidentally closed the car door on it.
i want my lawyer.
well my hand hurts like hell. yeah i feel much better.
don't splint it. i want to be able to bang it against the wall if i need to administer another dose. just tape it up. [cuddy walks in.]
[to wilson] make it tight will ya.
nothing i could say is going to change how you feel and nothing could come out of your reaction that is going to change what i plan to do so i prefer to say nothing.
uh-huh.
and scared.
yeah cameron told me and i told her to tell him no.
neither can the father.
well he's the dad. i should win easily.
what cause i lied to a patient? i take risks sometimes patients die. but not taking risks causes more patients to die so i guess my biggest problem is i've been cursed with the ability to do the math. [cameron walks in; it's a veritable party in the exam room!]
what did he say?
and that's when he caved.
two plus two equals four.
who's jules? any mention of her in the medical history?
there's no need to get snippy. this kind of lupus takes years to get to this point it's been a week.
you're saying i screwed up.
then why didn't you just say that?
did you agree with my recommendation to treat for hep-e?
and then she went and lied to the father. that's why you're angry.
you always trust me. big mistake. lupus is a bad diagnosis.
that doesn't make it good.
put him on the transplant list. and make sure cuddy knows see if she can do anything to get him close to the top. [he stands slowly and walks into his office. chase and cameron leave. foreman waits and follows house. house meanwhile is throwing up in a trashcan. he looks up and sees foreman.] cafeteria. stay away from the sushi.
got stuck in a drawer.
no i am going through pain. pain causes nausea.
and your solution is to give me drugs. it's interesting.
who's jules?
jules. there's no jules in the history.
of what?
i don't think this is lupus.
your fourth diagnostic criterion of lupus is psychosis; this is just a kid missing his cat.
there's a difference between psychosis and hallucination.
psychosis requires <U+0096>
you have a dead family pet and you never mentioned it? nice family history.
how did the cat die?
what happened to the cat?
when?
where'd she sleep?
it's not lupus. where is jules?
stop the gases.
saving a sixteen-year-old kid from a lifetime of immunosuppressant drugs and a very nasty scar. this kid doesn't have lupoid hepatitis. he has acute naphthalene toxicity.
nope. [holds up tweezers] termites. they create naphthalene to protect their nests which i'm assuming is rather large and is inside all four walls of his bedroom at home. [he tosses the tweezers on the surgical equipment.]
the autopsy i just conducted on his pet cat.
you are not removing that kid's liver.
no but i have been feeling a little sick lately. achoo!
why are you so eager to cut into a healthy kid?
he just needs some chicken soup.
no you're not.
if the food here wasn't one step below riker's island he would've gotten better. he's lost fourteen pounds.
naphthalene is a gas a fat soluble gas. the kid breathes it in it gets stored in his fat cells. outside the hospital his body burned protein and carbs for energy and the naphthalene stayed in fat. but once the car accident put him in the hospital and he started losing weight [cgi of keith's fat cells full of toxin being freed] his body had to get its energy somewhere else. it started to burn fat. the floodgates opened the poison poured into his system.
getting him away from his dad's meatloaf is what's killing him. [cuddy and keith's dad walk up to house very quickly.]
your cat did not die of old age. he died of massive internal bleeding and acute liver failure caused by naphthalene poisoning the exact same thing your son has.
give me twenty-four hours we'll pump your son full of calories <U+0096>
[getting up slowly] if you do the surgery you'll be killing a mother of four.
i was guessing.
naphthalene poisoning is the best explanation we have for what's wrong with your son. it explains the internal bleeding the hemolytic anemia the liver failure it also predicts what'll happen next. if you do the surgery he's gonna lay on that table for fourteen hours while his body continues to burn fat and release poison into his system. either way i did you a favor. he's awake now you've got a chance to say goodbye. [slight pause]
and won my prize.
cuddy's a sucker. i would have done it for two weeks off.
yeah i'm an addict. [he goes into his office. wilson follows.]
i'm not stopping.
i don't need to stop.
i said i was an addict. i didn't say i had a problem. i pay my bills i make my meals. i function.
i don't want any relationships.
i've been alienating people since i was three.
well of of course i have. i've i've gotten older. my hair's gotten thinner. sometimes i'm bored sometimes i'm lonely sometimes i wonder what it all means.
[slams his cane down on the shelf] of course i've changed! [pause]
they let me do my job and they take away my pain. [wilson walks off looking defeated.]
[on cell phone] no price is not a problem if you have what i need. *click*
young man?
well if he's an old man osteopenia would just be a fact of life you make him comfortable send him home which means you're just boring me. so he's young which means it's most likely caused by cancer and you're here because you haven't found it. have you looked really really hard?
well how old is he? maybe the osteopenia is just early onset.
it's hank wiggen? [takes the card and looks at it] he signed it sweet. [reads] to jimmy wilson the cy young of medicine. you ask for that?
beat the yankees and save the free world. [hands the card to wilson and goes into his office.]
[checks his watch then looks back at foreman skeptically.] don't believe you. [to others] chem 7 also shows a poor kidney function. now why would a guy in his twenties have a poor kidney?
come on people. [pulls out the baseball card] he was 17 and 7! his era was 2.1.
my god you're right i lost my head. all life is equally sacred. and i promise you the next knitting injury that comes in here we're on it like stink on cheese. [chase smirks] he weighed 175 his rookie year.
now he's 195 after playing a year in japan. why?
and the bone loss. go ask him what he's on. when he says nothing have him pee in a cup. [chase leaves and house turns his attention to foreman.] if your car breaks down you're an hour late not two minutes. and two minutes isn't late enough to use a clever excuse like car trouble.
huh. unprompted lies that's a bad sign. either a guilty conscience or something personal's going on. [foreman sits down with his coffee] see that's all you had to do just walk in sit down do your job. [leaves]
you need cash?ah no i i don't have that much on meno no it's not a problem. no i'll be over by 6. kay. *click* [to receptionist] 5 p.m. dr. house checks out.
i was rounding up.
whoa whoa not so fast kathy.
ah. [checks watch] uh trouble with the leg? [carol nods house spots a bridal magazine in her purse] when's the wedding?
not much time to fit into that pretty dress and no time for practical shoe-shopping. you're running two miles a day further than you should be.
new shoes less miles and ex-nay on the afternoon cokes you're gonna look beautiful. [looks at the next guy] what's wrong with you?
[leans close] out of what? they're not in your eyes.
that's because you're trying to remove your corneas. [walks over to next man] what's wrong with you?
yeah yeah. symptoms [gestures at cuddy] we're working on a personal best here.
and?
well neither would i if i was having trouble controlling my pee pee! [to dentist] you're a dentist. nitrous oxide poisoning which means you're either dipping into your own supply or you've got a bad valve in the office. laughing gas rehab's probably more expensive than the plumber. meanwhile get yourself some b12. [moves to the next victim] who's left?
well make friends with the dentist. he can give you a note and maybe a little nitrous to take the edge off. [he observes the clock which reads 4:47 and walks through the door.]
or steroids. you guys got any money on you?
50 of them? [cameron looks shocked] foreman?
well that just leaves us with steroids!
less money is made by biochemists working on a cure for cancer than by their colleagues struggling valiantly to find ways to hide steroid use. but there's one thing they can't hide[checks his watch and walks past ducklings 1 and 2.]
hi. i'm dr. house. [walks over to hank's bed] and this is the coolest day of my life. [with an even bigger grinhe whips the covers off hank's bed!] see? steroid use shrinks the testicles. [the ducklings look rather embarrassed]
your lips say no your prunes say yes. hypogonadism. isn't that a great word? thanks we don't get to say it nearly enough. [to cameron] start him on lupron right away. [walks out the door.]
these freaks are willing to defile themselves for mass entertainment for money. i feel sorry for them. [pops a vicodin. lola runs after him]
no no it's not. it-it's got calcium in it. it's very good for the bones. [lola looks skeptical] basically on a molecular level it's just milk. [lola looks satisfied and walks back to the room. house looks at foreman.] how long do you figure before i get a call from cuddy?
uh-huh.
yes.
[thinks for a moment] it's creamy. but i had 3 reasons.
well we'll see in a minute i'm just making them up nowhe lied to me first.
if he lies to me about not taking steroids then i lie to him about not treating steroids he's cured. adds up for me-
if i told him the truth he wouldn't have taken the stuff.
severe respiratory problems.
i wanted to eliminate the placebo effect.
which brings me to my fourth reason.
i thought you'd buy one of them.
he's not gonna sue.
good guess but no. if the lupron causes respiratory problems it means he's not on steroids which means there's something else wrong with him. and the choices for that something else are almost universally very bad. [ooh serious.]
osteopenia messing his bones up. hypogonadism. impaired liver function kidney function andwe have managed to find the only professional athlete in the galaxy who is not on steroids. and it's not cancer. so what's killing him? [looks up as foreman enterslate again.] who shares my suspicions that the yankees were somehow involved?
[glances at foreman and checks his watch] throw out the lungs that was the lupron my fault. don't worry i'll send him a nice note.
pretty small environment. wife's fine no one else is sick.
addison's disease i like it. mainly of course because the treatment is
enough irony for all of us.
well we'll get him a new kidney. [cameron looks surprised]
cameron if you could make an ironic guess right about now?
agreed. he's not on steroids now. if he was on them anytime in the last five years it could've caused the kidney damage.
you see kidneys don't wear watches. sure gallbladders do but it doesn't matter cuz kidneys can't tell time. steroid damage could take years.
i don't know. how many times did he lie about cocaine before coming clean with the league?
oh that's right i remember. you never did come clean. the league was out to get you they faked the blood tests you had to get yourself a lawyer-
that's too bad. because our theory is that the kidney damage is caused by a and everything else is caused by b. the beauty of this theory is that we can treat a and b. but if you add the kidney symptoms back into the mix then we are looking at another letter altogether one that is apparently not in the alphabet. can't fix the bones no more baseball no more breathingno more brain function.
okay. yeah. think i've got one in my other pants. [starts to leave]
and you never tried too hard to find out either.
good. very good yeah.
he needs a new kidney. i was thinking the kidney people might have some.
he's a professional ballplayer brings joy to millions. do you really want to be known as the hospital that sent him home to die? [puts a fist down on some papers on her desk]
everything else is related to the addison's.
the test for addison's is always inconclusive.
you're not putting him on the list. [moves his hand cuddy takes paper]
you take a perverse pleasure at turning me down.
oh i'm sorry doctor i didn't know you were busy. want me to come back?
no. [walks over to her]
okay.
not my area. that is however my chair.
very noble gesture. my favorite kind-dramatic yet completely empty. the chances of non-identical twins being a match-
you writing a book?
that explains it i told them to put it on my door.
yeah. right. true love. that's just how we match organs these days. there's a couple in france-high school sweethearts-they're trading brains.
i scored. [holds up an envelope] it's a brave new world doc and we are at the cutting edge. you are looking [wilson pulls the envelope openand his jaw drops to his knees!] at two all-access passes to paradise itself!
true cost no man can say.
one thousand dollars. friday night-the biggest official monster truck jam in the history of new jersey!
whatever you've got you cancel.
listen they only give these tickets to owners. [wilson is stuttering like an idiot] anytime. we wanna be in the middle of the track we're in the middle of the track. these tickets are so goodwe have to sign a release. i mean it. we do this we could die.
[looks disappointed then turns away] fine. i'll ask one of my other friends. [gets up as wilson snorts in disbelief and he turns around.] what you're saying i've only got one friend?
[thinks a moment] kevin in bookkeeping.
i call him kevin. it's a secret friendship club name.
believe me i'd much rather be with your better half. and by better half of course i mean the one who struck out sammy sosa on three pitches and talks a lot less. but i thought i would talk to you first and alone. [picks up a folder and opens it] i got your results back from the labyou do match.
you're also pregnant. [lola gasps and tears fill her eyes; a smile spreads wide across her face; house watches her reaction carefully.] you can't be a donor. [lola looks at him confused] not in your current condition. [she swallows hard and manages a weak smile. a single tear spills down her face.]
[walks over to the bookshelf and shuffles through it] if she terminates the pregnancy he's not going to let himself die on principle.
[turns around and gives her a piercing look] please tell me i don't have to decide. [cameron looks hurt and house lays off the sarcasm a little] depends how long would they live?
fifty years no problem. six months i say let em die. well i've actually given this a lot of thought and my personal tipping point is seven years eight months and 14 days.
you found religion.
there seems to be a correlation. [cameron looks away; house watches her for a moment then looks away eyes darting about awkwardly.] i'm uh[he fiddles with the books a moment] do you like monster trucks?
right. [he looks down for a moment] i got two tickets. [cameron looks at him puzzled] friday night.
sure. sounds good.
exactly. except for the date part. [she stares at him shocked speechless. he turns away quickly embarrassed.] forget it. [starts to walk to the computer desk]
course you have to hear wilson's lecture. [sits down]
[thinks a moment] a for effort.
i thought it was up.
i have no idea. [to chase] hit him with the atropine (sp?) before he gets to 35 again.
apparently that's not enough.
what did you do to him?
but something did. [he sighs and heads for the door] call me when he's stableor dead. [leaves]
three more symptoms. heart rate up heart rate down now he's hallucinating.
no rem. he's actually awake.
not psychedelics not with the heart symptoms.
yeah. pithy analysis. [gets up] i can see why they asked you to speak at the cancer dinner. i'm sorry i'm gonna miss it.
no i think it's great. you'regiving back. [starts out the door]
spoke spanish. told them i was the new shortstop from the dominican.
lousy. [he studies warner's hands with a keen interest] around your fingernails that swelling it's called clubbing. hippocrates noticed that a lot of his friends who also had that tended to frequently grab their chests and die.
what do you take for it?
got em with you? [warner reaches into his coat pocket pulling out a half-empty/half-full bottle.]
don't bother. [warner stops and looks at him.] hank wiggen stole your pills. he tried to kill himself. [warner stares at house. house stares right back. staring contest!]
so what happened? he left the bottle open while he went to get some water? next time just take the whole bottle.
see people remember how many they've got. date's right on the label number of pills regular person can do the math. but a junkie doesn't have to. it's how many pills he's got left that's all he's thinking about. bought a big insurance policy?
not for you no. most reputable stores won't cash your checks after you're dead. but for lola-well girls like that they're all about the money-
you owe her.
[nods] so the attempted suicide the scaring her to death that's-what is that that's-gratitude? love? yeah i get that. [hank stares at the ceiling] we'll take out what you did to yourself yesterday we're back to the kidneys and the bones. [as he stands up he sets his cane down near hank's urine bag.] i'm scheduling the transplant. [turns to leave but hank lashes out suddenly grabbing house's coat. house stumbles against the urine bag and his pants get drenchedeeeew! he looks down at his pants in disgust and anger.] never visit a patient.
[nods slowly] i'll start treating the addison's which will most likely destroy what's left of your kidneys-
[irritatedly] hank wiggen peed on me. what d'you think these pants are worth on ebay?
is it that bad?
course why should i trust someone who lies about what he's doing friday night? [stops to face wilson] question is what are you really doing friday night? or more to the point what could possibly be better than monster trucks? or are we breaking up? [turns to enter his office. wilson lets out a long sigh then follows house inside. house is rummaging through his duffel bag.]
i definitely had pants here. [turns to face wilson] wait a second is that stacy the stripper? i heard she's playing atlantic city.
you thought i couldn't handle this news. [wilson's eyes fall to the floor and he nods. house turns his attention to the bag] you talk to her a lot?
what is this eighth grade? [looks at wilson] i'm fine.
[suddenly] no! it's[zips the bag quickly and controls his voice] i have no right to be upset. you two are friends. [looks back at wilson calmly] you should see her. say hi for me.
[tosses the bag under his desk] i'm not the cancer doctor who's lying about the cancer dinner. [takes his cane off the desk] i'm not the one who's betraying all thosebald-headed dying kids. [wilson smirks and house heads out the door] i'm gonna go get some pants i stink.
he tried to kill himself.
no.
and he can make decisions about his. he doesn't want your kidney. [lola looks shocked and upset]
probably.
if you keep that appointment he'll also probably die. [lola sobs into his shoulder] keep the baby. [he reaches up and awkwardly pats her shoulder. he makes a face as the smell of the urine meets his nose.]
are you just being polite? [she pulls away from him confused] see my pants are[gestures to his leg]
you can't smell that? [she shakes her head and he looks intently at her processing this.]
[looking down at sharon] so you're the new arnie.
would you get me a coffee? black no sugar. [sharon smiles confused and leaves the table. house sits down turns his attention to the ducklings.] okay so who is it? [the ducklings look confused] come on she's sleeping with one of you. [chase snorts and house looks hopefully at cameron] oh god please tell me it's you. [cameron looks shocked]
don't worry you're not gayyou're adventurous! [ducklings roll their eyes]
i'm afraid not no. the groupies sleep with the roadies in order to get to mick.
[eating off sharon's plate] that was the metaphor i was making yes.
[studies foreman a moment] damn it's you. [all eyes on foreman how embarrassing!] it's not addison's. new symptom: the inability to smell.
we rejected environmental causes because the wife was healthy. well she's not. last six months she can't smell a thing. if you think of them as one single patient add her symptoms to his[chase nods]
it explains everything. even why they had so much trouble getting pregnant.
so where else is cadmium?
much better.
what d'you mean?
why should they care that he's being treated for addison's?
my report says i am.
everybody does stupid things it shouldn't cost them everything they want in life.
i'm telling you gravedigger never disappoints. [cameron sees a couple pass by arms around each other.]
[quietly] well now let's not ruin a lovely night out by getting personal.
i lived with someone for a while. [looks down at his empty cotton candy cone then at cameron's] you gonna finish that?
baffling. though i vaguely recall a disease called noomonia numania?
pneumonia! that's it. just a guess here but are his parents big donors?
tiny unicorns goring his bronchial tubes would be cooler. and the way you're ignoring my question wow they're extremely big donors.
excessive irritation. he's 12 he's on auto-stroke <U+0096>
ah you need a dermatologist. if it's dry keep it wet if it's wet keep it dry if it's not supposed to be there cut it off. i never could master all of that. [house finds what he's been looking for <U+0096> a vicodin.] there you are. were you scared? it's okay. you're home now. [he takes it.]
cuddy. as a special favor to you <U+0096>
the rash is a total snooze. [takes the chart] unless it's connected to the pneumonia then it's party time.
purulent sputum dyspnea bronchi bilaterally. what causes this kind of rash?
send off a urine antigen and check if he's joined the elks. next?
excellent. maybe the lodge went spelunking.
their mistake. that's it? other possibilities?
the rash came first caused the pneumonia. nice.
all right. let's keep him on fluids and cefuroxime to be safe. and biopsy that rash. and take another history. even if we don't learn what's causing this we definitely need to know if twelve-year-olds are getting any action. [his team leaves.]
secret club. what's the secret they're all morons?
fungal pneumonia without the cave. clever.
these young doctors. it's like they don't care about people. no manners.
that's an interesting accent you have there. i'd say czech with about thirty years of aussie.
you're chase's dad. hard to miss you know the big hug and how happy he was to see you. [he sips his coffee and smiles.]
need a consult.
urgent doctor stuff. [he leaves.]
26-year-old male sudden loss of the ability to speak --
-- to his father. differential diagnosis?
dad swoops in chase swoops out.
see? you asked. dad comes 5000 miles and you're more curious than junior is. can't just be about the divorce. it's been fifteen years and mom's been dead for ten of them. you think daddy murdered her?
you want to know how two chemicals interact do you ask them? no they're going to lie through their lying little chemical teeth. throw them in a beaker and apply heat.
[calling after him] you know words can hurt!
hah hah hah. [the team looks over to see house reading a book on rheumatology by chase's father.] sorry forgotten how funny your dad was.
high praise. i know how protective kids can be of their parents. [he hands his cane over to chase and goes to look at the microscope.] not cotton animal hair. get the ct scan. [the team crowds around the ct.] first find the name of the company that made the insulation and second tell me what i'm seeing that makes me want to short their stock.
less obvious more scary.
no the cefuroxime would have killed some of it clouded the result.
anthrax. this house belonged to old man hussein?
allergic reaction to the antibiotics?
i want to know what dr. chase thinks.
oh i'm sorry! not you. understandable mistake. the other dr. chase. [chase is not amused.]
whoa whoa whoa! guys it's not a competition! it's a diagnosis! okay who thinks [raising a hand over chase's head] junior wins? [everyone's quiet.] four to one it's not anthrax. so we start over what's changed? what do the nodules tell us?
excellent. send an ace level. if it comes back positive put him on methotrexate.
come on there's no reason you both can't be wrong. it's not allergy but it's not coincidence either. disease number one set off disease number two.
and triggered a dormant sarcoidosis. keep him on antibiotics for the anthrax and start him on methotrexate for the sarcoidosis.
better go with him. make sure he doesn't snap and hurt somebody. [foreman follows him.]
apparently not.
is this a magic trick? because i am a total david copperfield fan although that tornado of fire that seemed a little fake <U+0096>
fascinating story. you thought of adapting it for the stage? [his beeper beeps he goes to get it in his office.]
go back to your son's room.
there's a problem. [jeffrey walks out and..]
no he doesn't. i rescheduled you guys so you'd be free.
you page me?
oh come on. we all need help now and again. [cameron foreman and rowan also enter.] you're getting a consult. okay we've got new skin lesions bigger and uglier. what would cause that?
sure except for the nodules and we're not working out of calcutta general.
gotta go with senior. he literally wrote the book on this one.
we'll give it to him now before the fat starts dripping out his eyeballs.
your watch is on too tight. [well how about that! patient crisis solved.]
your relationship with your dad is messing with your ability to do your job.
good point. haven't seen him in years he flies across the atlantic to see you <U+0096>
you breeze by him like he's a hare krishna at the airport. you don't even ask why he's in town.
probably. i was hoping to do this by sheer manipulation but if you insist on talking fine talk. [he walks over to the foot of the stairs.] what did he do to you?
i'd hate it. that's why i cleverly have no personal life.
good thinking! prove your dad wrong. that'll solve everything.
but the patient's getting better.
on the other hand getting better.
better!
be home by midnight or he can't have the car this weekend. [chase stops by the door.] you guys talk? did he tell you why he's here?
going back to the conference?
i hope you can get in. you're not registered. i get it. you had to make up a lie. can't just tell your kid you're here to see him. what father does that? that little blue dot under your collar. [rowan moves to cover it up.] it's a tattoo for guiding radiation treatment. i was looking for it after i saw what you had for breakfast: brown rice and vegetables macrobiotic diet. popular with hollywood starlets and cancer patients.
you look good.
what'd he say?
but you haven't told robert. you don't want to burden him because you were such a lousy dad.
yeah it's better. i'll get to see his face when he reads his dad's obituary.
i suppose it isn't.
well luckily at this rate that should only last about a week. okay so <U+0096>
are you saying that for the chance of a beautiful family moment or is there some medicine involved?
too bad. i was hoping for the other reason. i was gonna go get my camera. get a ct scan. his brain this time.
why didn't you tell me that rowan chase was in to see you?
you could have covered yourself. called me in for a consult.
you can't tell chase but i can. what should i do?
i promised i wouldn't. my fingers were crossed though so i'm wide open.
telling him now that's got real entertainment value.
then i should definitely tell him! i'd want to know.
oh you never run out of thingies. like that blonde thing you were chatting up.
double-entry bookkeeping? [elevator dings because the elevator wins at comic timing.]
billing procedures. they're so complicated aren't they? [wilson rolls his eyes as the doors close.]
drs. chase are 0 <U+0096> 3. even when they agree they're wrong. so next. what else could cause neural damage as well as all the nodules?
kid's dad mentioned leishmaniasis.
two diseases pretty much exclusive to southeast asia. what if the anthrax didn't set off the second disease?
no. what if something else was the trigger?
we happened.
i've gotta pee. [he leaves.]
nothing. [he grabs jeffrey's bad wrist.]
on a scale of one to ten how painful?
don't do that. it'll hurt you. carpal tunnel surgery obviously didn't work.
the little ones call me uncle gregg. your dad never had carpal tunnel. you mentioned two obscure diseases to dr. chase. how'd you know about them?
so what'd you search for? diseases from asia that don't match my son's symptoms? you heard about them in asia.
well you probably just forgot. let me refresh your memory. some remote dusty village close quarters at least a year starting to come back?
[to gabe] your dad's pissed off. he should be. comes here expecting us to do an extra good job because he gives a whole lot of money to this hospital <U+0096>
just telling him my job my obligation to this <U+0096>
there's only one thing that you guys have got to do. tell the truth or your son will die. how long were you in asia?
clue number one: if i were jesus curing this kid would be as easy as turning water into wine.
close but no wafer. clue number two: rheumatology rowan was almost right. it causes auto-immune symptoms.
it's leprosy. run a fite stain it'll be positive. daddy hung out on the wrong kind of indian ashram.
it's not dormant in the dad it's just slow. damaged his ulnar nerve was misdiagnosed as carpal tunnel. never trust doctors. run a fite stain.
vicious circle. the leprosy made him vulnerable to the anthrax and the anthrax treatment put the leprosy in overdrive.
yeah that's where the trouble starts. [cgi shot of what house is talking about.] the antibiotics hit the nerve strands they kill the leprosy bacteria. the corpses get tossed into the system. and as fascinating as our bodies are they're also stupid. they produce antibodies to beat dead bacteria. and these aren't the polite antibodies they're the ones that won't sit still; kick during naptimes. they attack his neural and fat cells cause some inflammation and all the rest of his symptoms.
[to cameron] i want you to call down to carville louisiana home of the last leper colony in the lower 48. get them to send up some thalidomide.
twelve-year-olds don't have sex right? so he can't be pregnant. make the call. [to rowan] i need to speak to your boy. [chase is alone in the office with house.]
people like talking about people. makes us feel superior. makes us feel in control. and sometimes for some people knowing some things makes them care. [he takes some vicodin.]
cameron would. me i just like knowing stuff. [pause] i know you hate your dad but i'm gonna tell you something <U+0096>
okay.
that's it. [chase leaves.]
32-year-old female paralysis and severe pain in her right quad. go.
she's the ceo of sonyo cosmetics. three assistants and fifteen vps checked out who should be treating her. who da man? i da man. i always suspected.
stop talking.
you read one of those negotiating books didn't you? getting to yes: fifty ways to win an argument. the hitchhiker's guide to being a pal. in five seconds you just manipulated these two into agreeing with your point of view. [chase and foreman look defensive.] fellas this is known as soft positional bargaining. it's not gonna work.
chase put her on blood thinners do an angiogram. [cameron looks triumphant.] when that comes back negative mri the spine. if that's clean cut her open and biopsy the leg.
read less more tv.
say ah.
no really belt it out like you're gonna throw up.
perfect. okay that's it. we should know in a couple of days what's growing in your son's throat. [the dad doesn't say anything in response.] hello?
excuse me?
right
right yeah well that happens. you know it's very dangerous operating so close to the vocal chords. okay well we'll send your kid's culture to the lab and somebody will call you. [as he's leaving] boo!
just wanted to see if your dad uh sorry. [he leaves.]
i need two days of outrageous sex with someone obscenely younger than you. like half your age.
man oh man. someone got spanked real good this morning.
cure cancer. is the hospital getting out of the dull business of treating patients?
i know exactly what he's doing. he's using us to run clinical trials.
[entering his office] it's unethical. [cuddy follows.] oh are you coming in too? i thought i had you convinced.
he's using patients as guinea pigs.
are we a pharmaceutical company? we're gonna wind up pressuring desperate patients into choices that are bad for them good for us. you're gonna compromise patient care.
what's interesting is it suddenly doesn't bother you.
he's not going to kill a few patients. he's going to kill this hospital.
[getting coffee] make him a bundt cake. patient hit a ten on the pain scale. what would explain that?
what about the muscle biopsy?
oh it's storytime! let me get my baba.
that's absurd. i love it.
which could in turn mean cancer. i'll talk to wilson. next time skip aunt elisa.
that's why i'm talking to an oncologist.
oh! i hadn't heard.
completely unethical.
no i have seen every scary movie ever made. six-year-old twins in front of an elevator of blood boys' choirs: those are bad omens. this is much more mundane: a billionaire wants to get laid.
and the reason you want respect?
okay then. you've just gotta think like a billionaire. [wilson smiles.] let's see big scary changes and then oh dr. cameron we should have dinner to discuss your future on my g-5 private jet.
yes i'm the big poobah the big cheese the go-to guy.
relax i've been through three regime changes in this hospital. every time same story.
it itches. [wilson sighs and leaves. house calls after him.] so are you going to do this bone scan for me or what?
dr. simpson! did you hear? new management. i'm thinking about switching to orthopedics. how much do you guys get for massage now without the happy ending?
you remember a guy named van der meer? not a big talker. you fixed his acl.
didn't get hypertensive during surgery? no strokes? maybe some connectivity loss?
i'm not involved. guy brought his son into the clinic.
the son's fine. can't shut him up. the dad show any signs of cortical disease? wernicke's?
he's not saying boo.
mr. van der meer. [dad is typing on his laptop.] what? [dad types whats werong gwith ricky] relax ricky's going to be just finkf. strep throat here's a prescription for an antibiotic. he should be all better in a few days. although [house turns around wielding a needle] this might sting a little. [he approaches the dad who looks frightened. house looks up to the ceiling and when the dad looks up house injects him in the neck.] i want to see you again real soon. [evil smile!]
what happened to a regular old-fashioned colonoscopy?
do you get that often? women would rather die than get naked with you?
but not of tests. just embarrassing ones.
it's not an inflammatory process it's not a clot because chase's angio says so and it's not cancer because her toosh is perfect. anybody else got an aunt elisa with weird stuff? [he looks at the angiogram.]
i thought you said carly's angio was clean.
you guys see the problem here? [foreman gets up to get a closer look.]
her toes are screwed up. they're backwards. do you guys know how much surgery it's going to take to swap them back?
either she literally has two left feet or you angio-ed the wrong leg.
or maybe it was jenny! how come some resident signed this radiology form? were you even in the room?
you'll do nothing! foreman you do the angiogram. [foreman leaves.]
i'm thrilled. [cameron leaves. house is still staring at the white board. while thinking he twirls his cane throws his ball. he ends up erasing the board with carly's physical symptoms and starts to write her psych symptoms.]
carly needs a heart transplant.
haven't gotten it back yet.
haven't done the muga.
i got my aura read today. it said someone close to me had a broken heart.
i can't tell you anything. professional responsibility.
not my professional responsibility yours. new regime you gotta keep your head down too.
i'm not saying you want to i'm saying you'd be obligated to.
i can't.
i've come up with a few really great rationalizations. [chase and cameron walk up.]
she's already on the list.
you need a heart transplant.
you cut yourself. probably highly ritualized. you play the same sarah maclaughlin song over and over while you do it probably works better than anti-depressants.
you're a high-powered bulimic. you make yourself throw up. you have to find the most efficient way to vomit without revealing the tell-tale signs of bulimia which is all eugh. very unseemly for a ceo. so you found a common antidote for accidental poisoning to do the job: ipecac. which is great if your kid's just swallowed a bottle of aspirin but really really bad if it's a habit. it causes muscle damage. it caused the pain in your leg. and it destroyed your heart. how often do you do it?
in about an hour there's going to be an emergency meeting of the transplant committee to discuss where you fall on the list should a new heart become available. problem is i am required to tell the committee of your bulimia it's a major psychiatric condition. ranks right up there with suicidal makes you a very bad risk.
unless i lie to the committee. but if they find out i lose my medical license. this would be a very good time to offer me a bribe. how much is your life worth how much is my job worth <U+0096>
i want to know what's right.
oh stop hiding! [carly looks taken aback at his yelling.] i'm asking you if you want to live or die you can't even say that!
yes! i want you to tell me that your life is important to you because i don't know! [pause] because that's what's on the table right now: your life. [he turns to leave; carly grabs his arm.]
this 32-year-old female was admitted by my staff because of paralysis and pain in her right thigh. patient rapidly deteriorated and now has severe congestive heart failure. pressers and vasodilators have not improved her conditions whatsoever. pulmonary function tests show an fvc of over 3 liters with edd-1 of at least 90% of predicted. and preserved feb/fec ratio and preserved dlco as well. [ed note: these were rattled off so fast i have no clue if the acronyms are right.] her muga had an ejection fraction of 19% with no focal wall or motion abnormalities. heart catheterization revealed clean left right and circumflex arteries and subsequent biopsy revealed irreversible cardiomyopathy. [wrapping up] which is why we're here.
i had a hunch.
look if the tests had come back differently obviously i would have taken her off the lists but on the long shot [vogler walks in and takes a seat on the sidelines] on the long shot i was right i didn't want to waste time.
cat scan revealed no tumors and dr. wilson found no trace of cancer.
no atherosclerotic vascular disease <U+0096>
no pneumonia no bacteriemia no hep-b or c or any other letters.
no alcohol no drugs.
she's a little blue but turns out she needs a heart transplant. [cuddy glances at vogler who gives her a pointed look.]
dr. cuddy do you have any reason to think that i would lie?
[looks at wilson and vogler before answering] no.
beautiful organ donor weather.
i never lie.
then you should have voted against putting her on the list.
oh jeez. have some backbone. if you think i'm wrong do something.
you value our friendship more than your ethical responsibilities.
my patient's getting a heart.
they're all <U+0096> oh the guy who can't talk.
oooh goody.
it's bad enough that screw-ups cost lives. now we've got vogler screw-ups cost jobs. i want chase scared. i want him doing everything he can to protect his job.
oh will you stop it with the book! why are you doing this?
you're manipulating everyone.
they like you. everyone likes you. [he starts to walk away.]
no.
[looking at his watch] 5 hours 23 minutes that's fast.
it depends. either surgery went really well or it ended really abruptly.
thank you.
so sing for me. [dad looks at house and then grabs his laptop.] oh no no no no come on look. when you had your surgery you were intubated. surgeon stuck a tube down your throat. now it never happens and it's never caught but it happens. your vocal chords were paralyzed. i treated the spastic dysphonia with botox. ironically a substance that tightens every other corner of your face actually loosens the tongue. i have healed you. you can talk. [dad shakes his head.] oh well. [house goes to leave and as he does] boooo! [dad grasps his laptop in fear but no scream.] okay you don't have to say anything it can be our little secret. if you can talk blink twice. [dad stares at house.] but you're not going to because you think you won't be entitled to the money you won in the settlement with simpson. yesterday i would have said you'd have to give the money back. today hospital's come into a lot of money mum's the word. [dad blinks twice and house smiles. dad smiles back and all is cheery in exam room one.]
hey.
i know the cardiologist has given you some guidelines schedule of medications and a strict diet: just what someone with an eating disorder needs. so i thought i'd get you started. [he grabs a styrofoam take-out container.] fried chicken from the carnegie deli.
yeah. actually i got it downstairs. [carly laughs a bit.]
you're my patient. don't screw it up. [carly nods and house leaves.]
[over the music] love this part! [switches to air drums and vogler turns off his music] okay. he ruined it.
i am sorry about the lab coat thing. the dry cleaners destroyed it. [vogler laughs and sits.]
trust me. six flags way more exciting.
sweet of you to say.
oh my. if only i'd known.
yes i don't envy the transplant committee their responsibility. they basically would have been forced to kill that poor girl. i'm not sure i could have done that.
no. this is actually more like we're dancing right now so let's get to the point. you don't like me. i'm pretty sure i'm not going to like you. it's nothing personal i don't like anybody. but none of that really matters does it because you've got money and i've got tenure. you need full board approval to get rid of me. i've got cuddy.
and wilson. so as long as we're stuck with each other we might as well ignore each other. [he turns on the ipod and out comes hava nagila. the music is quickly turned off.] that wasn't nearly as dramatic as i was hoping.
need the lawyer.
nobody but it's not even lunch. got served with a federal court order. some witness went into a coma and they want me to take a look at it. [he tries to hand the paper over to cuddy but vogler snatches it.]
i'm a doctor i'm not a lapdog for the feds; i don't play fetch.
[grabs the papers back] jail. you'd like that. no more naughty schoolgirl. [to vogler] conjugal visit that's her new fantasy. [vogler tries not to laugh as house leaves.]
he's really out of it huh?
rule out poisoning.
no the first guess was faking it. patient's a federal witness reluctant i'm assuming. he's also an 8 on the glasgow coma scale.
they tell me no but do an mri to be sure. [they round the corner to diagnostics bill is standing by the door.]
check for everything feds are paying. we're gonna turn a profit on this one boys.
do i come to you with my problems?
what you changed your name? smith wasn't good enough for you?
he's important to you got it. so no placebos for him we'll use the real medicine. [elevator dings house gets in.] well this was fun let's do it again soon. [bill follows him in.] brother in the mafia? [door closes because the elevator door has the best sense of dramatic/comedic timing in the whole show.] so just joey? i was hoping for a nickname. joey mango. joey the wrench. [bill hits the emergency stop.] people know where i am.
we're a bit of a specialized hospital. we generally only deal with patients when they're actually sick.
so on the mafia thing that's a yes.
[looking at the scan] these look like pseudomembranes. those take time to form. if it was an old injury it wouldn't have caused the coma.
what about his liver?
the neurologist thinks it's his brain wants to open up his head. frankly i'm shocked! you get to use the big boy drill and daddy's big red toolbox.
i'm not releasing him.
or because he had an unexplained coma which sounds better?
that's a catchy diagnosis you could dance to that.
cameron's my girl.
are you disagreeing with me because <U+0096>
of course it is. but unless i've been named as the fourth part of the axis of evil invaded and occupied this is still not a democracy. he's staying. send for hepatitis serologies and an autoimmune panel. [he enters the clinic.]
hey. i'm with you. old enough to drink old enough to do something really stupid and make yourself a baby.
[listing to the kid's breathing with his stethoscope] whistling technically. upper airways nose.
absolutely. [he leans over the kid.]
i doubt it.
no i doubt you were studying while your parents were away. [he retrieves a tiny toy policeman from the kid's nose.] hello officer. you might want to rinse this off before you let him play with it again. [his beeper beeps.]
what happened? where is he?
and who called vogler? [all the ducklings look at each other.]
you had no authority to release my patient.
from what you understand? he's not your patient; how the hell do you understand anything?
you're not even a doctor.
why bother just to piss me off?
okay. [turns to leave]
okay sir. carry on. [he leaves.]
so your junior g-man badge isn't looking so good.
comatose?
hep-c is a chronic condition. you don't think this is an acute situation?
except for the suddenness of the onset.
you get home one night. your wife hits you with a baseball bat. likely cause is the fact you haven't thanked her for dinner in eight years or the receipt for fur handcuffs she found in your pants. sudden onset equals proximate cause.
one test. what do his other liver tests tell us?
because she's cuter. [cameron looks uncomfortable.] though it's close. do a liver biopsy. when the results come back we'll know what we're looking at.
right. then he gets to testify and you get a gold star from cuddy.
do i have a reason for not wanting you to get any stars? [everyone looks confused.] fine start the treatment. it's all your idea. don't even mention my name. there's nothing wrong with your theory go. [they all get up.] but in the humor me department get a biopsy while you're at it. [they start to leave.] foreman we need to talk. [house and foreman enter house's office.] you're off the case.
somebody told vogler that i lied to the transplant committee.
you're too careful. you wouldn't jump ship unless you knew what was in the water.
but i want vogler to think i think it's you. and i want cameron and chase and cuddy and wilson and the nursing staff and the cashier in the parking lot to think that too.
took another homework break with betty lou?
pulled a quarter out of his nose. it's a classic.
got a crisis here!
it's a neat trick.
ah.
what they put romano in the parmesan cheese shaker again?
those idiots. how many times am i going to have to send them through sensitivity training? nobody's saying he's a homo that would be really really bad. so let's put a nice friendly spin on it. let's go with: he got raped in prison. i saw the jailhouse tats put it together with the blood tests
you're worried about how his coworkers will react in the walmart in des moines.
listen i don't know if you know about this but mob businesses sometimes keep two sets of books.
exactly.
doctors are busy sometimes they forget to write things down it happens all the time.
i doubt it.
on your way to polish vogler's car?
how will i eat?
floor polish costs through the roof?
my car has been stolen. [they look around for it and see]
[smiling] you know they're gangsters sure but they're thoughtful too.
no no no no. uh-uh. graft is if i tell them i'll only make him better if he slips me a couple bucks. a payoff for something i'm not supposed to do. if i'd asked for the payoff (which i didn't) i would have done the bad thing anyway. so there's nothing wrong with this.
damn. '65. perfectly restored. what do you think a guy like joey would do if someone turned down a gift? that's kind of an insult isn't it?
i'm screwed. gotta take the car.
[entering] biopsy's back. two findings. number one: lymphocytic infiltrate and no bridging fibrosis.
who said that? i forget. what are you doing here? i told you you were off the case.
well it's clearly not going to work now.
if we knew that then we wouldn't need a diabolic plan now would we?
no you guys love me too much.
finding number two: toxins.
he's a 30-year-old mobster. he doesn't have a job that results in accidental exposure to toxins he has a job that results in intentional exposure to toxins. someone's poisoned him.
whatever this toxin is it's doing its job and fast. how long do we have until the next round of test results?
there is another way. relax it's kosher.
anything?
is he a smoker?
early signs of emphysema. he's been smoking at least a dozen years.
nope got that from the chest x-ray. white count just tells me he's quitting. [he goes to look over cameron's shoulder who looks uncomfortable.]
cancel the thumb screws i've got our culprit.
not who hu.
thanks for playing along. chai hu a chinese herb in his quit smoking candy. reduces cravings also reduces his white blood count. oh yeah he also took enough of them to poison himself. we'll keep him on the pig for a few more hours then take him off the candy he'll be fine. pig won't be. oh no.
i'll keep him overnight then let the feds know he's good to rat out whoever he wants.
maybe have to give back the car.
why?
he humiliated himself.
the '66 came with a shut up button.
it is my medical opinion that the patient is healthy and can be released.
you're having a meeting?
not by themselves but in combination with the interferon it's like gas to a flame.
for the hep-c.
oops.
is letting the feds know everything that important? [house's beeper beeps.]
ed!
joey's back in a coma.
question is why? it's not his brain it's not a toxin. our friend babe helped with that one. so what else?
am i going to have to write a song about it? his chronic hep-c was not bad enough to produce these symptoms.
indicates something else entirely.
[as the three others start to leave] what else could cause his estrogen level to be that high?
pretty sure you didn't.
thus forcing him to shove a big one up there. [kid is still crying.] stop or i snap your nose off! [and the kid stops crying! house pulls a fire truck out of his nose which goes with the policeman and the firefighter.]
genetics is a powerful force. on the other hand maybe he's smarter than you think.
just give me a second. always wanted to use one of these. [he grabs a big magnet and demonstrates its use by picking scissors up off of the counter.] tilt his head back.
just tilt his head back. [he uses the magnet and a metal cat comes out of the kid's nose.] nice grasp of concepts relationships. very smart very cool. first the policeman fireman fire truck. your brother was sending in teams to save the cat.
sometimes the simplest answer [ he trails off in thought and occam's razor strikes again!]
most types of coma you just don't snap out of. [chase enters.]
yes i have. a very simple one.
it's private.
you're currently top of the list. toxic comas person's away from the cause long enough and they recover.
it's not a poison then.
how about a food sensitivity?
problem is if i can't trust you i can't trust your statement that i can trust you. but thanks anyway you've been a big help.
so where did you get the money?
someone paid you off.
you're talking about poison. i'm talking about payoff. graft.
you paid the marshal off.
no it just worked out that way.
better than fish sticks? i'm thinking steak.
he had steak before both comas. your brother has ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency. you want me to write it down? good because it takes a while. it's genetic it can present at any time. the patient eats a large amount of protein especially if he's not used to it.
yes. if i'm right and we stop the current treatment he gets better. if we stop the current treatment and i'm wrong he dies.
his estrogen level. otd doesn't explain his estrogen level. but i have a theory. there is one chemical that if ingested can cause a person's estrogen level to increase dramatically. [he sits in the waiting area.]
it's called estrogen.
no nothing like that. it's called male flame. it's probably more consumer friendly in the original chinese. it's an herbal aphrodisiac marketed to gay men.
and sold on the same website that sells his chai hu lozenges. guess what's in it? starts with an e.
that would be quite a trick. he slapped me so hard his brother turned straight. joey's a big-time mobster. guys like that don't get raped in prison. they get gifts they get food drugs cigarettes cable tv
well maybe not gay but certainly delightful. you on the other hand hitting a doctor even if it was only chase and asking another one to keep his chart fresh and homo-free. well that's a bit of an overreaction wouldn't you say? it's almost like you're scared that it might be true.
okay. then don't stop the treatment. [starts to leave] but if you're wrong he dies.
that's what i love about you mob guys: so tolerant of others so accepting. only way he was coming out was way way out. lose the tattoos change his name move to another town how's a guy like him going to do that? witness protection. it's not just for witnesses any more.
good thing you fought for me though right? the dress was a nice move but you've got to follow it up. nasty weekend in vegas something that shows off your real administrative skills. [he pops a vicodin.]
i'm sorry. so how long do i have? i've a lot of personal stuff to pack up. i assume you're going to want to throw a party.
he's only keeping you on because you know the secret handshakes. he's a quick study. six months he'll have the moves down. then he won't need you any more.
so i stay.
profits. new world order.
everything's about profits.
that would be easy and it would be wrong.
to a point.
i gotta do six more clinic hours a month. so do two of them. [nods to the ducklings on the other side of the wall]
cause one of them's gone. i gotta fire somebody. [house walks into the office leaving behind a shocked wilson. house and wilson share a look through the glass before wilson moves on and house starts the day with his team and trusty whiteboard.] good morning.
you ever see an infected pierced scrotum?
well if pain's what you're after the penis is really the way to go. i'd recommend the apadravya.
oh? sounded like we were.
nipples?
absolutely. as soon as i do performance reviews. and then review the reviews of course. because a decision like this can't be made without proper you know review. shouldn't take longer than a month maybe two. four at the most unless it gets complicated.
only instead of a two-cent piece of tape and gauze it's a human being.
like you don't. [the elevator opens revealing cameron.]
don't know him.
what's the problem?
definitely don't know him.
right. the simplest explanation is she's a forty-year-old lying about her age. maybe an actress trying to hang on.
that's what five pediatricians two nutritionists and a psychologist said. the heart attack would seem to indicate that they missed something.
could if her blood pressure was high enough.
it fits the symptoms. me likee. do a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp. [they get up to leave.] oh and one more thing. i've been told that i've got to get rid of one of you guys by the end of the week. new sheriff belt tightening you know how it goes. okay carry on. [he goes into his office.]
burning?
hmm sounds almost like heartburn.
like a thesaurus?
i take it you never mentioned this during any of your prenatal visits.
sorry you don't get to make that call unless you have a stethoscope. union rules.
vasectomies can reverse themselves condoms break.
you have little people inside you. [lucille grabs her purse and heads to the door.] okay okay i'm sorry. i guess i must have just been brainwashed by the media and all those years of medical training.
let's see if i can find some antacids while the nurse gets some blood.
the heartburn gotta make sure it's not spreading.
on what? sharon's plan for gaza?
i'm thinking i can convince vogler it would be more cost-efficient to let me keep all of them.
it will be more cost-efficient once i've grabbed cameron's ass called foreman a spade and chase well i can grab his ass too.
together. [house leaves wilson to pay for lunch.]
you're wrong. she is in fact pathetically sincere. and they didn't screw it up.
i'm from the lab. the blood tests showed your daughter wasn't hypoglycemic which means her psychosis wasn't caused by anything these doctors did.
i have no idea but you'll be happy to hear it can't be cured by diet or exercise.
what else could cause uncontrollable rage in a ten-year-old?
i assume i don't have to point out that now would be an extremely good time for one of you to distinguish yourself with a brilliant idea.
she hasn't had liposuction.
but what about some other ridiculous obesity treatment?
diet pills can cause heart attacks and blood clots.
wouldn't show over-the-counter weight loss drugs.
she's lying. okay you two heparin and warfarin to prevent further clotting. and you [to foreman] find those pills.
[shaking the bottle of vicodin] not diet pills. you might want to broaden the search just a little. and don't just ask the mom if she hasn't mentioned yet she's not gonna <U+0096>
so what should i do?
yes i had noticed your complete indifference. you don't even offer a medical opinion any more. who would you fire?
i want your opinion. [foreman starts to leave.] fine it's you. [foreman turns around.] either way you're making a choice.
[slightly puzzled] wh- because he screwed up an angio a month ago?
right it's the money. you resent it but you're going to tell me he doesn't need the job.
he was ready to go three rounds with cameron for it.
i'm surprised.
i didn't think you'd pick at all.
i guess he's not the rise above the fray guy he likes to think he is.
he's scared of losing his job just like everyone else.
i am not miserable. [they enter the clinic.]
and you are?
i am exactly where i want to be doing exactly what i want to do.
[looking at charts] hmmm i was wrong.
mrs. hernandez's pregnancy tests.
either a woman carrying an alien baby or your newest patient. [wilson grabs the chart.]
it's actually a personal record for this clinic.
you wear a bikini now?
nope but i've never gone swimming with you.
yeah that's exactly why i planted a thirty pound tumor on your ovary.
[nodding] yeah it was.
yeah i'm sure that if everyone i knew hated me i couldn't bear to look at me. i wouldn't go so far as to shoplift.
[stuttering] wait! are you going to let him say that? he insulted our basketball teams! [foreman's beeper beeps then chase's then cameron's they all have different beeps that sound quite nice together but that's not the point of this.]
or both. diet pills brought her to us we gave her the sores.
i'm not saying the hospital gave the sores i'm saying we did. by treating her. warfarin-induced skin necrosis.
who gave her the heparin?
sure you didn't both give her warfarin?
[to chase] did you actually see her prepare and administer the heparin? [pregnant pause] enough said.
none that i can think of. let's fix the mistake. give her unfractionated iv heparin and low molecular weight heparin by subcutaneous injection stat. [cameron chase and foreman leave into the hallway.]
[shouting out the door] hey! stop worrying about your asses and start worrying about the patient's.
brrrr. icy. definitely think twice before correcting one of your mistakes again.
right i always forget that part.
yet. [pause] if you didn't screw up then what is it? you don't have an answer.
when you come up with something let me know. i'll be in the clinic warming up.
why? why would you support someone who screws up?
i'm sorry you said you weren't angry. who would you fire?
not an option.
figures you'd try and come up with a solution where no one gets hurt. the problem is the world doesn't work that way just cause you want it to.
uh he's not in today.
he's also got a bit of a drug problem. sometimes doesn't show up for weeks. [he walks into cuddy's office.]
yes. i'm going to cut the pay of all four of us. 17% across the board will allow you to keep us all for the same amount of money. i believe it's what you suits call win-win.
it's not about the money.
even if i was dr. house physician-patient confidentiality protects me from annoying conversations.
yeah? she also tell you why she's refusing to have it removed?
you want her to regain the weight?
why?
yeah tell her that and leave me alone.
the tumor is benign nothing's gonna happen. except maybe some more heartburn.
you know where to find us. building's not going anywhere.
oh way to win me over.
you have kids! how novel! that changes everything. so if mommy has heartburn one of them might catch on fire.
they are cute. have her come back in.
your plight has moved me. [elevator dings.] tell your wife to come back.
have you found the right thing?
then we continue the treatment. hope it's just taking longer than it should.
or who.
do it.
what no roses no chocolates? if you're here to apologize <U+0096>
uh-oh that means you're here for something more complicated. [he takes vicodin.]
yes. i was just waiting for an excuse. thank god vogler came along. phew!
really? because there is another explanation. [he stands up.] perhaps not as much fun as your freudian analysis but maybe you actually made a mistake.
i believe that you are the only one to express feelings. and if we're going to look at this from a first-year psych point-of-view maybe you want me to fire you. maybe that's why you're acting weird. you <U+0096>
i have the answer.
maybe you should. [cameron leaves making the door shake behind her.]
men are pigs.
i should have realized the vasectomy and condoms was overkill but this was too obvious. [he holds up mr. hernandez's photos.] cute kids. love her green eyes. and his baby blues. of course since you and your husband have brown eyes
from the father of three maximum four of your six children. so i'm thinking maybe the reason you don't want surgery is while your husband may find you attractive no matter what all the other men you're sleeping with might not be so open-minded. which brings me back to my original thesis: men are pigs. you got nothing to worry about. you know pretty much have sex with anyone fat skinny married single complete strangers relatives <U+0096>
so are you. i'm sure there are websites full of men looking for married women with surgical scars. [he hands her back the pictures.] so have the surgery. please?
it's been almost three hours still no change in her condition.
assume that cameron didn't screw up. what if it's not the warfarin?
right right right but let's just say it's not. come on come on what have you got?
no there's no time to think! say the first thing that comes to you head.
we already considered obesity as a cause.
okay so what could cause obesity and skin necrosis? listen i don't care if it makes sense just give me something.
no that's just sores not obesity.
more sores. okay let's look at it from the other side. what has obesity as a symptom?
she's not just heavy. she's tall. we have any history on the dad?
kid's short. we've got stunted growth high blood pressure blood clots obesity <U+0096> it's cushing's.
in rare cases cushing's can cause hypercalcemia which can lead to the same skin necrosis as warfarin. it's perfect. it explains everyting.
the hypercortisolism could be cyclical we just didn't catch it in the right phase.
there's no time! we've got less than an hour to make the call.
do an mri.
no i want you to look for what could cause hypercortisolism with an mri.
actually it's over a week. where have you guys been?
chase.
the deal was <U+0096>
no.
yeah bad sushi is so hard to diagnose.
uh huh three minutes that i could spend sitting on the toilet with the funny pages.
[closes the door] nope. i never liked cameron or foreman.
fine. i'll hold the senator's hair while he upchucks.
i don't do speeches. i'm shy.
eastbrook pharmaceuticals wait a second don't i own that company? oh no that's right you do.
i know its price tag is significantly improved.
[mutters as he leaves] viopril
helps me concentrate. [puts down nintendo picks up vicodin.] even better than drugs. [he pops one to demonstrate.]
yeah yeah yeah. tongues heal too fast. your political consultants have written you a nice story. in a tight race the lispers alone could put you over the top.
i just find being forced to sit through drivel annoying.
you're a black kid from the ghetto who made it to yale law and the united states senate. that's a sufficiently mythical story you don't need to lie about your tongue. [foreman has been checking the senator's reflexes; the left leg was okay but the right didn't move.] must have missed it.
it's not the food. it's your brain. [to foreman] get an mri and a lumbar puncture. [to wright] cancel your travel plans.
i guess we can tell him he's fairly healthy and can go home.
care to bet your job on that? [chase makes a face.] what was that?
you got annoyed. that was clearly an annoyed face.
but last week you didn't get annoyed you made poopie in your pants. it's weird it's almost like now you know you have nothing to worry about.
none of you has anything to worry about.
vogler saw the error of his ways and repented. the lesion could be nothing. it could also be a brain tumor or infection. there's only one way to find out which.
dangerous i know. especially as he's a politician his brain's all twisted. but i weighed that against the risk of him stroking out before lunch. call surgery get it scheduled. [he leaves.]
you're not pregnant. [he hands her some tissues.]
sure. you were pregnant. based on your hormone levels you had a miscarriage.
[charting] right since it's physically impossible to have sex without someone buying you dinner.
fine have it your way. immaculate conception.
well it's obvious. start a religion. [he leaves. as he walks out cuddy storms past him.
[to the clinic nurse conspiratorially] afternoon delight. she just loves the hard wood. [house enters cuddy's office.]
where'd you get that?
oh just so i'm clear if he was a janitor that would be okay. do you have a list?
uh huh whereas tumors are really good for brains make em grow big and strong. it's my call.
you're pulling rank on patient care?
either it's a tumor or it's an infection that the lumbar puncture didn't pick up. either way if we don't treat it immediately it could kill you.
wow excellent question. many doctors wouldn't have gone there.
mmm but you'd only make that argument if you were an administrator covering your own ass.
insulting yes.
this could leave you b-b-b-b-brain damaged and you're worried about nascar dads?
it's not a bacterial infection either.
if that were true would dr. wilson's mouth be contorted into that ugly little shape?
which means the great black hope has full-blown aids. they're gonna love that in dubuque.
if you have toxo in your brain you have aids.
this is very bad news. i get that and i sympathize. but we've gotta speed through the denial phase because you need antiretrovirals and you need them fast. [he hands the pills to senator wright.]
but the toxo drugs are going to piss off your fungi and when fungi get pissed <U+0096> [senator wright throws the pills.]
you're afraid word will leak out. trust me you're not going to become president either way. they don't call it the white house because of the paint job.
but when i really believe in something gosh dang it i've got a chance to make a difference here.
it's all the rage. everybody's doing it. [chase gives house a petty pouty look and goes to sulk in a chair. cameron walks over to house.]
one speech no biggie. foreman's doing a bone marrow biopsy to check for cancer.
cancer sounds better on a press release. i need you guys to rush the elisa test for hiv. [he starts to walk into his office.]
when i said rush i meant you know fast. stat's the word you doctors use right?
double stat? [chase pats cameron on the arm to follow him out which she does.]
you're welcome again.
got it. you're grateful. apparently you seem to think it'll mean a lot to me to know that.
i thought you didn't believe in god.
well then you better be making a very good point.
are you comparing me to god? i mean that's great but just so you know i've never made a tree.
you are the most naive atheist i've ever met.
thank god. [he walks off but turns around.] people pray so that god won't crush them like bugs. i'm not gonna crush you.
gosh the internet is such a wonderful tool.
definitely possible. the more likely diagnosis is hickey.
[exasperated] why is everybody so ashamed of sex all of a sudden?
i say you're having sex you say you're not. either you're lying or i'm wrong. or there's some middle ground.
i mean you're having sex without knowing it. i'm testing you for booze drugs and ghb.
the date rape drug. [he leaves.]
it's positive. [he hands the senator the water and some pills.] your t-cell count is eight which means there's a good chance you'll die. i'm telling you this because we need to contact your sexual partners.
you know the chances of you getting hiv from heterosexual sex with a condom?
some day there will be a black president. some day there will be a gay president. maybe there will even be a gay black president. but one combination i do not see happening is gay black and dead. you need to stop lying to me.
oh cut the crap you're dying.
i take chances all the time it's one of my worst qualities.
wanting to believe the best about people doesn't make it true.
well that's very moving. it's a shame i don't vote.
i need to draw some more blood.
that's not surprising.
why are you spying on my case?
and you don't see a problem with that?
you're not the one being asked to perpetrate a fraud on the american people.
that i've been ordered to give.
don't care.
because i'm a very high-strung little lapdog. [as he enters the elevator] ruff ruff ruff rarr ruff! [cuddy looks faintly disgusted.]
[standing in the back of the room] nuh uh. no pills.
the antiretrovirals aren't working.
because you don't have aids. [the senator laughs.] the first test was a false positive. happens one time in every five thousand.
yeah. you're still dying. the only difference is now we don't know why.
so cuddy can't find us. unless we find out the underlying disease this guy's lied to his last constituent.
ran it twice.
no history of respiratory problems.
idiopathic from the latin meaning we're idiots cause we can't figure out what's causing it. [he takes a vicodin.] give him a whole body scan.
cause they're useless. could probably scan everyone of us and find five different doodads that look like cancer. but when you're 4th-down 100 to go in the snow you don't call a running play up the middle. unless you're the jets. [he walks away.]
standard procedure.
i knew he was going to africa and i figured he was vaccinated for hep a and b. that could cause a false positive.
i should have ordered both.
he said he had not engaged in any risky behavior.
well he didn't have any reason to lie <U+0096>
is that why you haven't put the moves on her?
you have restored my faith in the human race. you're lying.
i just got your results back. no ghb no nothing. it means you're having sex and you're lying about it.
it's a carpet burn.
is something upsetting you?
we have a sleep lab in the basement. if nothing else it'll get you away from your ex for a night.
how slightly?
sure or he's had a cold in the last six months. [to chase] what you've got her on speed dial?
spontaneous bleeding it's benign. i was rooting for a really cool tumor instead we're stuck with this crap.
well knock yourselves out. [vogler enters.]
mr. vogler would you like a free whole body scan? a man of your stature should get himself checked at least three times a year.
fourteen pages. the audience will be comatose by paragraph two.
dr. chase. we need to talk.
how do you see this ending?
i can't fire you so you have no reason to fear me and therefore no reason to lie to me. you told cuddy where i was. you told vogler what i was doing. [pause]
so how can i work with you?
i am selling my soul.
i said i was selling it. i didn't say i was giving it away. that would be immoral and stupid. all they've done is added antacid.
that's not the point!
he's not asking me to do anything.
his left armpit node has antibodies for cb 11.
we never tested for hairy-cell leukemia.
size isn't everything. the spleen is the mother lode for hairy-cells. let's cut it open.
why do you do this to me? now if i kill him i can't tell the judge i had no idea of the risks involved.
see that'll sound much better in court. okay go tell our human pincushion we'll be sticking him one more time. [as they all leave -- ] cuddy. don't you hate doing this?
you like me. why?
just trying to figure out what makes you tick. i am not warm and fuzzy and you are basically a stuffed animal made by grandma.
[muttering] oh god don't try and pick me apart.
[standing by the window.] you know when the inuit go fishing they don't look for fish. [every looks at house for a bit but he remains silent.]
they look for the blue heron because there's no way to see the fish. but if there's fish there's gonna be birds fishing. now if he's got hairy-cell what else are we gonna see circling overhead?
we can test for them. run the titers.
these were your brain waves at 2:45 am. now here it comes there's an abrupt jump from slow-wave sleep. this indicates partial sleep arousal. the most common type is somnambulism <U+0096> sleepwalking.
yes and also why you were pregnant. and the hickies. and the carpet burn.
sexsomnia is a documented disorder. you said your ex lives downstairs <U+0096>
okay but he probably didn't know that you were asleep. sexsomniacs can act pretty normal. i'm going to write you a prescription for a low-dose antidepressant. it'll let you sleep better. if you want to save yourself the $15 co-pay you can have sex while you're awake.
you live in the same building you haven't had sex with anyone else for a year you sleepwalk right into his arms. call me crazy but i'm sensing unresolved issues.
you've got an opinion too?
you're welcome. he's positive for epstein-barr.
you didn't fall off the swings when you were eight.
ever.
uh uh. we have to talk. you had an epileptic seizure. that's how you bit your tongue.
what medication did you take?
yeah that's it. don't worry about what the question is don't worry that you're starting to feel dizzy just stay on message.
phenytoin?
senator gary h. wright of new jersey had childhood epilepsy. he took phenytoin. that drug with the epstein-barr virus is associated with common variable immunodeficiency disease. t-cells down b-cells down it keeps you from forming enough antibodies. see antibodies are basically your defensive line. [cut to cgi shot describing what house is saying minus the sports players.] and your brain is like the quarterback. and then the fungi are like blitzing linebackers plunging up the middle. your lungs are like okay you've got two quarterbacks <U+0096>
yeah well it was a stupid idea when you said it. then he got the respiratory problem and tested positive for epstein-barr.
another reason why chase's suggestion was idiotic. he got it when he was a kid. didn't get any symptoms until now it happens. it gets triggered by stress like public speaking.
start the senator on iv immunoglobulin stat. if he gets better i'm right if he dies you're right.
you faked that.
say antiretroviral.
now say it three times fast.
well why not run for pope while you're at it?
if they were running today they wouldn't stand a chance.
no there's things i can't do and like you said i have to live with reality.
then why run?
[reading off a paper very monotone] eastbrook pharmaceuticals' extraordinary commitment to research excellence is exemplified by their new ace inhibitor a breakthrough medical approach that will protect millions from heart disease. [he looks up at the crowd stuffs the paper in his pocket and starts to walk away. the ppth team gives looks of that was it?]
i thought it was pithy. you got enough for a press release anyhow.
a few things i forgot to mention. ed vogler is a brilliant businessman. a brilliant judge of people and a man who has never lost a fight. you know how i know the new ace inhibitor is good? because the old one was good. the new one is really the same it's just more expensive. [vogler does not look happy.] a lot more expensive. see that's another example of ed's brilliance. [at this point wilson looks mildly interested cuddy looks mad and chase and cameron look like the world's about to end.] whenever one of his drugs is about to lose its patent he has his boys and girls alter it just a tiny bit and patent it all over again. making not just a pointless new pill but millions and millions of dollars. which is good for everbody right? [cuddy is now shaking her head in disbelief and wilson is staring pointedly.] the patients pish. who cares they're just so damn sick! god obviously never liked them anyway. [cuddy = furious; wilson = facepalm. chase downs his whole glass of wine and cameron is staring at the table's centerpiece.] all the healthy people in the room let's have a big round of applause for ed vogler! [house claps foreman shakes his head the rest of the room stays silent. vogler well he doesn't look happy at all. as house hands vogler the paper -- ] i threw in a joke.
i'm sorry. i should have taken a couple of extra vicodin and just held my nose.
true.
why? is this another noble self-sacrificing gesture? you trying to protect foreman?
so this is just don't fire me i quit.
you have a stage 4 cancer. it's metastasized to your liver. [vogler looks shocked.] there's a new drug called 8c 12 that's shown promise in phase 2 trials. it's your best shot.
well i did publicly bash your company's drug.
oh hey come on. [house gets up and walks to behind vogler sans cane and limp. he rests his hands on vogler's shoulders.] there there there. [vogler sniffles.]
always. but just in case i special-order an extra jumbo-size coffin.
don't thank me. it's just who i am.
sorry up late. internet porn.
because there is a computer in my office. if i log on romance will ensue. my wrist might fall off.
i don't like loud angry giants threatening me with violence. how is that pathetic?
[getting a drink] i'm okay with later.
three miscarriages? gimme. [takes the file]
tox screen?
for incontinence.
pregnancy-related autoimmunity. too bad that cameron quit i could use an immunologist right now. we'll see if you're right; check the blood.
last night. and do an mra for vasculitis too.
an ultrasound? excellent thought! and put her on magnesium too in case it is preeclampsia. [he takes a vicodin.]
it's not a cold. [hands the baby back to rachel] it's pneumonia.
relax pneumonia's her second-biggest problem. she has gone from the twenty-fifth weight percentile to the third in one month. now i'm not a baby expert but i'm pretty sure they're not supposed to shrink.
raw food. if only her ancestors had mastered the secret of fire. babies need fat proteins calories. less important: sprouts and hemp. starving babies is bad and illegal in many cultures. i'm having her admitted.
antibiotics for the pneumonia iv feeding to get the weight up. don't worry it's a vegan iv.
whoa! [vogler is standing right in front of him and he doesn't look happy.] there you are i've been looking everywhere for you. uh listen you said i had to cut one of my people if i didn't give that speech about your drug and in fairness to your point of view my speech really wasn't the one you had in mind so i've cut cameron. now we're all squared away right?
so that's a no' on us being squared away.
yeah we had a nice little chat. i really should have kept cameron. she knew where to find the sugar.
ah ha! [he shakes a packet of sugar triumphantly.]
what did she choke on?
what kind of food?
she choked on soft wet pear. did she forget to take the bones out? that's way past muscle weakness. did you do an upper endoscopy?
oooh. we've gotta talk. [as he leaves] and check her eyelids.
well enjoy the bagels. i'm untouchable.
any vote to revoke my tenure has to be unanimous. i've got you and maybe even cuddy.
what can he do? i've got a contract.
does it involve candy? because i'm a sucker for chocolates. [wilson gives him a look and walks away house takes a vicodin or two.]
she's doing better.
technically alexander fleming. he developed antibiotics. pneumonia's under control and from now on what say you stick with human food.
this time that's your guy. [house stars to leave but is blocked by a bunch of people entering the room including police officers.]
this is how vogler's gonna destroy me?
he had my patients arrested.
those parents were not abusive they're idiots.
it was my call.
you know there's a new biography of quisling i think you might like it.
uh norwegian guy world war ii traitor. the fact that i have to explain this kind of takes the edge off my flow.
from what? cops aren't gonna bust me. disiplinary committee maybe gives me a slap on the wrist.
if i don't give him one he makes one up.
no. there's no calcification.
they do suck. where's wilson?
cameron isn't here.
you think this woman is making a rational decision?
pretty damn rarely. and not this time this is purely biological. in evolutionary terms the needs of the next generation are more important.
darwin is i'm not. the next generation is not my patient. we have to raise the odds for mommy. and where the hell is wilson? he's the oncologist. [he leaves.]
you guys bust out?
weird. you'd think they'd let you take her home while they figured out if you tried to kill her.
the kid who stacks the free-range grapefruit in your health food store is not a nutritionist.
foreman i need a ct scan on
seriously? [joel nods proudly.] olive kaplan. check for abscesses or occult infections. [he hangs up; to the kaplans] bu-bye.
listen vogler's all about clinical trials the hospital's chock full of them. there's got to be something for small-cell lung cancer. [house notices that wilson is packing his stuff in boxes.] what are you doing?
did you make a pass at cuddy? told you she only has thighs for me.
so he's getting rid of every board member who votes to keep me around?
just you?
but you're only off the board right? they couldn't have got unanimous approval for you.
eh so you're off the board big deal. frees up wednesday nights for bowling. you're still a doctor <U+0096>
big of him.
[quietly] they mattered. if i could do it all again <U+0096>
those clinical trials?
thanks.
nice job of protecting me.
his ass can wait. you saved my job by sacking wilson?
so it's about the money.
we've sequenced the dna of the tumor cells. p53 gene mutation at codon 55. she's perfect for your trial.
well you want easy cases you picked the wrong speciality.
excellent.
middle of next week.
she can start in two days.
she won't be in two days. i've scheduled a c-section.
well it's definitely surgery but major?
again a question of interpretation.
oh i think he's got a big bag of those already.
well i'll be sure to let her know that. care to join me?
angiogenesis inhibitors prevent the tumors from creating blood vessels. without blood the tumor starves.
the treatment would be fatal to the baby. i've scheduled a c-section for later this afternoon. it's in the trial phase right now but so far complete remission in more than thirty percent of subjects.
when your chances of living were less than a third of what they are now.
our pediatrics department has the best neonatal icu in the state.
okay. leave the room. [sean does so.] how long have you been taking oxybutynin?
incontinence is pretty uncommon in a woman of your age. it's even more bizarre in a woman in her twenties.
seems that way. you said to your husband you don't know what it's like raising a sick child. you didn't say you don't know what it would be like. this is not your first child is it? and he doesn't know.
i'm sorry.
very moving story. explains why you're being so selfish.
because it's what you want. your husband wants you to live.
oh who the hell does? tragedies happen. you think that turning yourself into a disposable incubator for a few weeks is going to protect your baby from all the crap in this world go ahead die happy. i got no problems with people killing themselves but don't think it makes you a hero.
you're scheduled for 4 p.m.
hey! you're killing her!
she knows the risks she was fully informed <U+0096>
not his life not his call!
right so she kicks off his number look bad.
which would cost you money!
one person one blip in the data!
well thank god you were here to save all those lives! [vogler pauses breathes laughs and shakes a finger at house.]
did you get the clot?
how long was her oxygen at that level?
brain function compromised? [the monitors go off again.]
she's bleeding into her abdomen.
no you stay here. [leaving] keep her as stable as you can for as long as you can. [he leaves the or to find sean pacing outside of it.] she had trauma during the procedure. she's bleeding into her abdomen. there's nothing we can do; i'm sorry.
i need you to okay the c-section.
it probably will.
she's dying either way. [sean drops his coffee cup.]
stay with me sean. i need your okay on this.
right and that's gonna be tough from now on but this decision is easy. you know what she'd want.
you make this call only two things change. one: yeah you feel guilty for killing your wife. two: your baby lives. naomi's baby lives.
we need to talk.
it's about a patient.
i'm not talking about her. at this point i think it's best that i concentrate on patients who are still alive. [cuddy looks surprised.] pulmonary embolism. she bled out. saved her son. [he hands cuddy some films.] this is olive kaplan's ct scan the incredible shrinking baby. [cuddy looks at it.]
digeorge syndrome. it's genetic can cause the gland to wither to nothing.
yeah.
i've sent a test down to confirm; when it comes back you should start olive on immunoglobulin replacement.
i assume i won't be here.
cuddy is a genius [ball to foreman] convincing four people to give up a fortune to save our sorry asses. [cuddy walks in.] dr. cuddy! [he raises his glass.] the man of the hour. [foreman throws the ball to her which she catches. there are shouts of hey hey! and the like.]
we're drinking. i would have thought that was pretty obvious. [ball is thrown to chase cuddy picks up a glass.]
well thank you miss buzzkill.
you voted to get rid of him.
i saw the light on.
yeah it's a figure of speech. always so literal. [pause]
yeah. guy in the store said it was slimming. vertical stripe
vogler is dead.
again with the literal translation. vogler the idea mr. destructo mr. moneybags bow down before me; he is gone from the hospital so things can go back to the way they were.
weird works for me.
i want you to come back.
please unclench. you're not on the clock and when you do that i clench and then it's the whole thing
it's no big deal some sort of epidemic. not my area.
what i'm doing now is important.
because you're a good doctor.
that's not enough?
sorry lot of sick people. i might catch something.
great got it diagnosed you don't need me.
that's a problem of resources not diagnostics. no i'd be completely lost get in everyone's way.
[reading a thermometer] 102. you win a trip to the second floor. next!
take these go home talk to your daughter.
your pants your blouse your scarf are all freshly dry cleaned. everything except your jacket it's got a smudge on it. probably two days old. which means you didn't know the jacket had been worn. so either your husband is a crossdresser or your daughter has been borrowing your clothes without telling you. probably wants to look older to get into bars.
next!
yow.
you have a rash? come on. [mary lifts her jacket to reveal a red rash on her hip.]
yeah. does your neck hurt? if it does you get the trifecta.
where are your parents?
[turns his neck] go like this. [mary turns her head to the left and to the right which hurts her.] now like this. [she then nods it to her chest and up which doesn't hurt at all.]
you're coming with me. [after looking at his pile of blue slips foreman follows.]
she's had the rash a week. if it was this meningitis she'd be dead by now. [cuddy walks up.]
12-year-old female. fever rash neck pains. not meningitis.
sure pus in the spinal canal makes it hurt to move your head up and down but her head only hurts moving side to side.
doesn't fit.
those little pills you're passing out so efficiently aren't going to do miss louganis squat.
that's right. i'm subjecting a 12-year-old to a battery of dangerous and evasive tests to avoid being bored. [everyone stares at him.] okay maybe i would do that but i'm not. if it turns out she does have meningitis you're right you win but if we go back downstairs and she dies your face will be so red.
get a lumbar puncture. some brain infections can be pretty clever at hide-and-seek.
no you won't. you sir will research all the causes in the universe of neck pain.
start with the letter a. and put her on rifampin.
in case i'm wrong. it has happened.
what letter are you up to?
torture combing through all that stuff ain't it? real dull. awful.
well thank goodness. a lot of people would resent having to do this.
think i've seen this movie. the ending's kind of dark. [he offers some candy to foreman.] want one? [he pretends to offer one to chase but takes it away when he starts to take one.] how come you did the endoscopy?
foreman is not your boss. when i tell you to do something <U+0096> whoa. hold it there. back it up a couple of frames. [he looks intently at the image on the screen.] oh yeah! that's your money shot.
really? ginormous thing on the right side of her intestine doesn't even intrigue you?
no but it does tell us something. though i have no idea what.
precursor isn't causing all of her other symptoms. what else? [cuddy enters.]
i hurt my leg. i have a note.
dr. chase i told you to tell us when our time was up. she has intestinal bleeding.
no you need more nurses. but you cut back on the nursing staff so you have doctors doing what the nurses should be doing.
[to patient handing her a blue slip] go be free. [a bouncy teen walks up.]
no fever no neck pain. take the elevator to the third floor.
smell her hair no chlorine. which means she wasn't at the pool. which means she's come to a quarantined area because she's a idiot or she's insane. no one is that stupid. east wing psych ward bye-bye. [she wanders off.]
you up to bs? well done!
[to foreman] get a sample of her bone marrow.
break time.
use chase's break too. go.
what and miss out on all this fun?
you don't think he has it coming?
that's cold. all he did was save his job.
right rudder. [she follows.] bank bank bank!
trying to think of anything except the produce department at whole foods. [wilson tries not to smile/laugh.]
sorry you just don't usually see breasts like that on deans of medicine.
no they can be babes. you just don't usually see their funbags.
ah not interviewing today. i don't know if you've heard but there's this big time epidemic. many sick people puking in the hallways it's crazy.
he's in a band.
totally. what kind of music do you play?
[pops a vicodin] oh dude. you are so hired.
not a chance.
tattoo. [dr. spain turns his right arm to reveal an asian symbol on his forearm.]
nonconformity right. i can't remember the last time i saw a 20-something kid with a tattoo of an asian letter on his wrist. you are one wicked free thinker. you want to be a rebel? stop being cool. wear a pocket protector like he does and get a haircut. like the asian kids who don't leave the library for 20 hours stretches they're the ones who don't care what you think. sayonara. [dr. spain leaves.]
actually the asian kids are probably just responding to parental pressure but my point is still valid.
are you sure it was an absence seizure?
do you mind? we're trying to work.
looking but not finding. you do an eeg?
which tells us
and? [more groaning.] good lord are you having a bowel movement or a baby?
a bleed in the brain can cause seizures.
doesn't have to be.
well let's see now there's the 18-year-old has-been that she beat out to make nationals the has-been's parents jealous siblings sociopathic swim fan and then there's just your plain old garden variety whack job. [the toilet flushes and some kid patient walks out of the stall.] hey! you know what a hemorrhoid is?
well google it. and try some raisin bran instead of the donuts. [he turns on the faucet with his cane.] okay do a ct scan check for intercranial bleeding.
if our patient's bleeding into her brain she's gonna be dead in 8 hours.
-- who touched you in the naughty place?
hmm. ancient but if there's enough bleeding it might work. okay do what the guy who didn't specialize in neurology said. [foreman leaves.]
[mimics him then] you've still got to cover q-z.
sorry i'm late i was taking a dump.
you actually speak four languages or you just banking on never being interviewed by anyone who does? [he takes some vicodin.]
why are you leaving dr. hazel? did you fall for him and can't handle it or is it the other way around? [wilson is a little shocked by the way this conversation is going.]
you jewish? [wilson gives him a hey now! kind of look.]
is it true what they say about jewish foreplay?
i heard four.
no way.
did you see her shoes?
the eyes can mislead the smile can lie but the shoes always tell the truth.
they were not prada. you wouldn't know prada if one stepped on your scrotum.
exactly they were stylish and very painful to wear. only an incredibly shallow and insecure woman would rather be in pain all day then wear a decent looking comfortable shoe and that's exactly the type i don't need around here.
blue form to the security guard.
so what your advice is... hire someone i'm not happy with and be happy?
now it's people. i thought we were talking about fellowship applicants.
well when i do decide to push you away i hope there's a small person kneeling behind you so you fall down and hurt your head.
you saw the shoes!
you're talking about cameron.
cameron is so not perfect.
mother teresa?
angelina jolie?
now who's being picky?
i need an operating room and a surgeon.
our little mermaid is bleeding into her temporal lobe.
20 minutes.
stop it. stop looking for things we don't know and focus on what we do know. what do we actually know besides what's up there? come on how hard can it be to tell me what you already know?
what else? come on! [he leaves the room.]
[to chase and foreman who just walked up] we're missing something.
well if i knew that it wouldn't be missing.
no she's got her mom's eyes and a red patch of hair just like dad.
that's a lot of balloons.
not unless she's been competing in the nude all these years.
what if the rash isn't a rash?
who gave her the balloons?
what about the guys?
which guys visited her?
she's cute she's nice she's a kick-ass diver. you'd think the guys would be falling over themselves to get close to her.
okay so maybe they're just not interested. or
there any cell fragments in her blood smears?
check em again.
you done yet?
starts with t. you were so close.
there is one other possible cause.
pregnancy cause all kinds of chemical and biological changes in a woman's body. or a girl's body as the case may be. [he moves the screen so she can see the fetus.] in extremely rare cases everything goes haywire. it's called ttp. blood starts clotting like crazy clogs the vessels in your brain and kidneys. red blood cells end up getting shredded as they squeeze past the clot like a fat guy in a crowed bar. i'm sure you know what that's like. you're only 12 but you're all grown up right? [he offers her tissues.] travel on your own hang out in hotel rooms getting room service with your teammates maybe someone sneaks in a couple of beers you start playing spin the bottle next thing you know you're waking up in nothing but your socks.
of course not. you wanted it.
actually under new jersey law the term is felon.'
we're going to have to do something called plasmapheresis. it cleans the antibodies from your blood. we're also going to have to terminate the pregnancy.
someone should. rock paper scissors?
of course you will. if you're old enough to bleed out of your vagina obviously you're old enough to handle a simple thing like an abortion without mommy and daddy's help.
under new jersey law you're the boss.
your daughter has ttp. don't worry it's curable she'll be fine.
some really big words that you've never heard before and when we're done we'll never hear again. have a nice day.
uh in a few days. she needs some minor surgery to remove the underlying cause before we can do the another really big word.
she has an abnormal growth in her abdomen.
it's very simple. we do it here all the time.
actually no. i'm sorry.
i know.
there is no opening.
i know. the position's been filled.
exactly. [he gets up to leave.]
you figure if you keep arguing i'm going to cave admit it's all a lie and hire you? [he leaves.]
i don't want to interview anyone else.
hah. that's good. and why i need you around. to keep me in my place. [he keeps trying to look into cameron's apartment. heh.]
wasn't listening.
you want me to listen to you more? i can do that.
with who?
unaccept it.
because yule is boring. he's pedantic and preachy. because he's short. because i want you to come back.
want more money? a car allowance better parking space?
you'll come back to work if i go out on a date with you?
okay it's a deal. [they shake on it.]
don't be late.
you don't know her.
don't have tivo on this thing can't rewind. shut up.
you don't even know her.
he's a patient.
he's got to go back to work as soon as i'm done with the examination. guess i do too.
keep talking. i'll finish your exam with a prostate check. [to wilson] i've agreed to take her on one date.
no! she's not giving me any choice. [wilson now looks a bit puzzled.]
date her.
for god's sake. [he grabs his tv and leaves. as he's walking out the door --]
[over them] grow up. and learn to harmonize. [he shuts the door and runs into harvey who spills an open cup of liquid on him.] damn it!
who the hell walks around with an open urine sample?
well he peed on me. i'm not into that. [wilson sniffs house's jacket.]
i forgive you for ruining my jacket. [harvey doesn't move.] look you seem like a regular kind of guy not the type to get another regular guy into trouble am i right? [it sounds like harvey is sobbing house rolls his eyes.] twenty bucks cash if you'll stop crying. [nothing doing.] forgive me yell at me just give me something i can work with okay? [he grabs harvey's shoulder and turns him around to reveal a harvey that's not doing well at all. he quickly checks his pulse and flashes a light in his pupils which are blown. wilson shows up.]
get a wheelchair and get this guy into the er.
right pupil's blown.
[entering with wilson] cause this is the happiest place on earth. 21-year-old male comes in with grinding of the teeth.
sure but since he's not dead or in a coma i'm going with stroke to the optic nerve. [he puts up scans on the light board.] ct scan shows two things.
and?
you're looking at the wrong part of the scan.
metal plate. he's had major reconstruction and there's no way we're removing it so we're forced to be clever. angiogram to rule out vascultis emg for peripheral neuropathy tox screen to eliminate drugs an echo to rule out cardiac emboli. [as they all leave] dr. cameron. i'd appreciate you keeping the terms of your new contract to yourself. don't want everyone clamoring for the same perks.
pleasure to meet you. [vicodin goes pop!]
[sitting and putting on rubber gloves] not anymore. so does it hurt when you tinkle?
you have some vaginal tearing. no sign of brusing no indication of trauma forced entry ramona. you naughty girl. you've either got yourself an 18-year-old boyfriend or an 80-year-old with some little blue pills.
lucky you.
prefer it if myron was a little droopier?
[going for the big question] have you talked to him about this?
here's a prescription for vaginal estrogen suppositories. it'll help with the lubrication.
you can't tell him the truth so you want me to lie to him?
close your legs. [he leaves.]
well based on this history it's either toxic herbs from the homeopath spinal damage from the chiropractor infection from the needle that the acupuncturist accidentally let sit in eye of newt or the shen balancer. what the hell is a shen and how come it's lopsided?
hang up a shingle and condemn the narrowness and greed of western medicine you'd make a damn fine living.
of course no harm no foul. it's just taking a few bucks from superstitious idiots right?
except the six months that he had with these charlatans might have been spent going to someone who looks at things that exist in the real world. but that's just me being all narrow again.
hmm. quite a dilemma. [house picks up a magic 8-ball.] oh great pool hall oracle grant me guidance. [he shakes it.] do we go with foreman's theory which is at least marginally supported by medical test results or chase's theory which is completely unsupported by medical evidence. what to do
and all signs point to [he looks at the 8-ball.] sorry chase. the gods have spoken. start harvey on blood thinners and antibiotics.
well that's an intriguing legal opinion. geez what kind of a lawyer is he?
then what was the point?
call the cops bar her from the hospital force her to pierce your nipples not really medical decisions.
chase. did you know about this woman? what she does?
i wouldn't have tortured you if i knew you liked it. [chase kind of laughs at that.] well here's a phrase to remember: hey this guy might have been pounded on the head one too many times!
yeah could have carried a tad more weight if you'd mentioned the liking pain thing. you're on my naughty list. sorry no leather stethoscope this christmas.
i assume you never started him on antibiotics or blood thinners before mistress ilsa's rude interruption.
start him on antibiotics and blood thinners. [house watches as an older gentleman walks into his office. he watches the man throughout the rest of this scene.]
no he's probably right.
but if foreman's right about it being bacterial endocarditis and we <U+0096> [foreman raises his hand.]
okay if foreman used to be right about it being blood clots and we take the surgery route then we'll probably kill the guy. so start him on blood thinners and if he has another stroke then we'll schedule the surgery. [he opens the door to his office.] yeah?
i have a feeling i'm going to regret this but yes.
she lied. [he hands myron a script.] here you go.
always happy to make people happy. goodbye.
how much more of what?
you don't want more sex?
hey here's a radical thought. talk to her.
sounds crazy when you put it like that.
in the hospital? could be. let's see if we can find it.
got any blue pills?
well that's one example of a blue pill. name six others.
perfect. fill her up. [house nods to myron. cuddy walks up.]
little busy here.
it's purely business. i'll make sure you get the recipt.
wow. well you've certainly given me a lot to think about. if only i was as open as you.
actually it was your blouse i was talking about. [cuddy smiles.]
stop the treatment. [to foreman] sorry we tried your way you could not have been wronger.
oh yeah we've all got perfect 20-20 hindsight. get a hold of main in vascular see if his surgical dance card is free for tomorrow. [chase and foreman leave. cameron clears her throat.]
you couldn't keep your mouth shut.
that would be army boots and t-shirt. it's the county paintball tourney. first prize is fifty bucks; i'll split it with you if you hold your end up.
relax. i made a reservation at caf<e9> spiletto. regarding wardrobe: are you too young to remember spandex?
someone should just tell him to do it. way faster.
not you. where's a good dominatrix when you need one?
if you get caught cuddy's got a hairbrush. and believe me she knows how to use it.
yeah. it's making me question my view of myself as a people person.
emergent situation invoke heroic measures.
great where do i get me one of them? do i need to lawyer up?
well they might have a problem signing anything seeing as how they're dead.
like what dad's hand? i don't even know where they're buried.
great and when your searches turn up nothing you should try to find out where they live.
accountants they're usually pretty good with money so how come he lives in a slum like market town?
two bad accountants from the pacific rim? the odds are astronomical.
that'd be my bet. go to his apartments. see if you can find his folks. address number something. [house walks into his office. foreman follows him.]
sure.
[turns on the tv] time's up. thanks for playing.
way ahead of you. i've got a case of malt liquor stashed in the trunk mr. marvin gaye on the cd we are gonna get all the way down. now move. [foreman sits on the tv which was not what house had in mind.]
oh you know me too well.
i'm missing my soap for this?
and fall for me even more. the love doctor has made an art of breaking up with women. cause you're convinced that the loss of you would be too devastating for any woman to handle.
i'll do it. [he flicks a yo-yo in chase's face.] let the master show you how it's done. [chase takes a few tic-tacs as house dials.] mr. park? this is dr. house calling from princeton-plainsboro teaching hospital in new jersey. your son harvey is dead. we need you to identify the body. yes i'm sorry it's the law. [cameron is shocked chase rolls his eyes and foreman is grinning. house hangs up and takes the mint box from chase.] there's a real art to delivering bad news.
be sure to let me know when cuddy starts screaming. [chase takes the second mint box from his pocket and eats a few more.]
it's only a white lie. technically all i did was call them a little early. trust me he'll be dead real soon. actually i saved you some rush hour traffic.
fine. just as soon as you sign this surgery consent. i have a pen. [mrs. park takes out her cell phone and dials.]
but you don't get off on embarrassment the way your son does. i guess it skips a generation.
yeah you guys can haggle in a minute. but here's the thing. humiliation comes in all kinds of packages. people finding out that your son's a perv that's pretty high up there. people finding out that you'd rather let your son die than sign a piece of paper where's that rank? and trust me if i have to paste up a sign in every nail salon and dumpling shop in pennsylvania i'll make sure they know. [he offers them a pen. mrs. park turns off her phone and signs the paper.] your son will be in surgery first thing in the morning. dumplings that was a cheap shot. [he leaves.]
this is a mistake. i don't know how to have casual conversation. you think you're talking about one thing and either you are and it's incredibly boring or you're not because it's subtext and you need a decoder ring.
i have been on a date.
did your wife give them to you?
i should cancel. i've got a patient in surgery tomorrow. [house moves to the kitchen.]
[looking in the fridge] no beer.
this is pretty lame right? [wilson smiles.]
thank you.
yeah. it's changed a lot since the last time i was here. it used to be a strip joint. [cameron laughs.] nice earrings.
nice shoes. comfortable?
we're in a restaurant we're dressed up we're eating. if not small talk what is there? [awkward pause of doom.]
i treat you like garbage so i must really like you. given your freudian theory what does it mean if i start being nice to you?
hmm. so there's absolutely nothing i can do to make you think that i don't like you.
you live under the delusion that you can fix everything that isn't perfect. that's why you married a man who was dying of cancer. you don't love you need. and now that your husband is dead you're looking for your new charity case. that's why you're going out with me. i'm twice your age i'm not great looking i'm not charming i'm not even nice. what i am is what you need. i'm damaged. [he picks up his menu leaving cameron to think.]
she had the ravioli i had the puttanesca.
well i did have a little indigestion afterwards. maybe it was the garlic bread.
nothing deep mostly small talk.
took your advice complimented her shoes that's fifteen minutes of chat right there.
i don't think so.
if it's not clots a loading dose of blood thinners is gonna make him bleed out of his ears. then he won't be able to hear. [myron and ramona tap on the glass of diagnostics.] oy ve. [yelling] nobody home leave a message!
chase cameron get another angiogram and echo. better get a full-body scan. if it is clots it'd be good to know where they are. [they all file out of the office; house goes to talk to myron and ramona.] sorry about that. guy dying.
well glad to see you've got the correct perspective on the thing.
nice visual.
candy wouldn't take away your headaches.
you came to me and told me that you were having too much sex.
you too sequoia.
i know that everybody lies but you'd think that after a certain amount of time together you wouldn't be trying so hard. [myron fidgets with his wedding ring.] your rings don't match.
well style is one thing but one silver one gold? how long have you guys been married?
damn it you're having an affair.
you guys aren't the victim of the little blue pill you're the problem!
aw. [myron takes out a breath spray and sprays his mouth.] oh welcome to hell. [house closes his eyes as myron and ramona kiss in front of him. and it hits him. he takes the tic-tacs he took from chase out of his pocket and starts to walk off.]
looks like you guys are good to go drug-free for a while.
dr. chase these breath mints you've been popping since yesterday. are they a new fetish?
and you didn't find that interesting.
wrong.
chase get your nose in here.
come on just put your face in his mouth. [chase does so and then recoils.]
rich wouldn't you say?
number one sign of fulminating osteomylitis.
probably from the original break. never healed properly. [cgi demonstrates.] infected tissue from the jaw breaks off blocks blood flow to the brain and life just isn't worth living without blood.
like this. [he sticks a syringe in harvey's jaw pulling out pus from the infection.] ladies and gentlemen we have pus. [he hands the syringe to chase and takes the tic-tacs from him eating a few.] we're gonna remove the jaw. anybody got a buzzsaw? okay call a surgeon.
hi i'm dr. house. [to the nurse] how's tricks annette? [the nurse turns and it is indeed annette in nurse's scrubs.]
no it's okay. i came to talk to you both. like i tell all my patients you've simply got to say no to strangulation. me i'm a freak i get off on not being in pain. that and chocolate-covered marshmallow bunnies.
yeah he is. a little. but it's got to stop. or he'll die.
well lock him in a cage. that should be fine medically.
you witnessed the spew or you just have his word for it? i think i'm coming down with a little bit of the clap. i may have to go home for a few days.
you said this is the fifth time he's missed a class this year! either he's dying or he's lying.
fine i'll have cameron do it. she loves inspiring the inspired. [he starts to walk off.
[turning back] why is it always me?
i'm not doing it. [he leaves stops at the door and walks back in.] you're supposed to stop me. renegotiate.
i'll do the lecture for four hours off clinic.
i'm outta here take it up with cuddy.
hi stacy.
how am i doing? well the last five years have been like you ever see those girls gone wild videos?
is that why you're here? [stacy shakes her head.]
who am i looking at?
who is suffering abdominal pain and fainting spells. no sign of tumors no vasculitis. could be indigestion or maybe a kidney stone. a little one can pack a lot of wallop.
not to someone so poorly endowed. this guy's pancreas is pathetic. [he walks off stacy follows.]
well maybe there's nothing to be found.
the walks are out. [stacy grabs his arm.]
interesting. it means there's either a neurological component or he's having an affair.
i'm not too busy but i'm not sure i want him to live. it's good seeing you again. [he leaves and stacy is holding back tears.]
three guys walk into a clinic. their legs hurt. what's wrong with them? [a student <U+0096> let's call him keen student <U+0096> raises his hand.] i'm not going to like you am i?
statistically you're right. very good. my experience: over half of leg pain is musculoskeletal generally from excessive exercise. twelve percent is varicose veins brought on by pregnancy and most of the rest is the result of vehicular accidents. i said three people. that's six legs. so you've got three hurt jogging two in collisions and one of the legs is pregnant. [some chuckles. another student <U+0096> let's call her the caring one <U+0096> pipes up.]
i have no idea. [enter the third student: the rebellious one.]
of course but all that told us was what they said happened. person a farmer says he was fixing a fence. [cut to a visual of the farmer.] tightness of the ankle loss of muscle control. [the farmer groans and collapses.] person b volleyball practice. [cut to a girls' volleyball team where there is one middle-aged man playing with them. he dives for the ball and falls on the ground clutching his leg.] coach figured it was a pulled muscle. and c [cut to a mini-golf course] we've got carmen electra. golfing. [her ball makes it into the golden buddha and she goes yes!]
the baywatch thespian. and no i've gotta disguise the identity of each of the patients and i got tired of using the middle-aged man. carmen seemed like a pleasant alternative. also she's apparently quite the golfer. [he stands.] now in less than two hours one of these three will get tossed out of the hospital because they were faking it to score narcotics and one will be very close to death. any guesses on which is which? [silence.] okay i say we start with the farmer.
did you hike to the fence and how far?
and where's the pain localized?
so what should we do first? [he turns and keen student is standing right next to him.]
indicative of leg pain? that's a very short list. any history of bone cancer osteogenesis imperfecta or multiple myeloma? [the farmer shakes his head. caring student pops up.]
bzzt! sorry thanks for playing. patient's dead. you killed him. [the students look and sure enough the farmer's dead on the table.]
you had time to look at the leg. [they look down and the leg (and the overalls and the whole farmer garb) is now the property of one carmen electra. she takes the straw out of her mouth and smiles.]
we are. but if we're going to look at a leg
i need you to take off your pants. [house stands in the corner with a smug look on his face as carmen takes off the overalls. she gets back on the table playing with her hair as she does so. house looks at the wound and then looks out as he proclaims --] puncture.
that would be my guess.
that's what he said. sudden shooting pain tall grass never saw a thing.
you want me to tell you what kind of snake it was from the shape of the hole in the leg?
oh there are people to find those things out.
and while we wait for the humane society to show up what say we check up on the volleyball player?
it's a leg. a leg is a leg is a leg.
would you worry about her more if she was younger?
yeah right. i saw the way you were looking at carmen. she's mine stay away. [chuckles from the class.] would you operate on your mother?
then why are you so anxious to treat every patient like they're family? the actual patient is 16. here's what happens when doctors care to much.
you got all this from an examination of the knee?
she doesn't have tendoni<U+0097>
she's depressed about having tendonitis.
not the boy.
ah. problems with the thyroid gland causes depressed mental state can cause inflammation of the tendons.
no because she took such an interest she discovered a tiny nodule. which in reality signified nothing but gave us no choice but to put a person with tendonitis through an expensive and painful test.
here's how a well-adjusted doctor handles a case.
i'd rather you didn't. [caring student shows up.]
first one. the golfer. [enter keen student.]
[to carmen] you have decreased reflexes in your patellar tendon. anyone? [rebellious student has shown up.]
could be. how bad does it hurt?
yeah?
oh for god's sake. she's here to play out my fantasy not because she's meryl streep. [caring student and carmen both give him a look.] fine. [carmen disappears and we see a man in his late 30s now known as late 30s man.]
sir are you getting pain anywhere else? [the last part is almost drowned out.]
sir where are you getting pain?
oooh.
[holding up the syringe] what do i do?
apparently he's not allergic.
no you did exactly what his attending did.
yeah.
you're going to see a lot of drug-seeking behavior in your practice and there's a reason: it works. meanwhile back on the farm
what say we take five? get some coffee go pee. [he leaves.]
she asked me the same question.
there's probably nothing wrong with him.
so i should help her because she hates me.
the volleyball player was responding to the anti-inflammatories as you'd expect in a case of tendonitis.
what if i told you the volleyball player had a sudden massive stroke?
no. but that would make you interested right? what if her t4 came back low? it's not quite as interesting but it has the benefit of being true.
no i didn't. i said she put a person with tendonitis through an expensive and painful test. apparently the patient had tendonitis and a thyroid condition.
you were right the first time. snakebite guy's way more interesting. gross actually.
[looking at the tests] no it's not. notice the volume?
200mg. our guy got bit less than four hours ago. there's no way a snake regenerates that much venom that quickly.
nope. unless you've got a patient bit by one. then it might be helpful. so what do we do now?
or you go online and find there's only three poisonous snakes common in new jersey: the copperhead the timber rattler and the coral. the copperhead and the timber rattler both respond to the antivenins we gave the guy.
is that a question?
very good.
no need. odds are by the time you get back the autopsy results will tell you what kind of snake it was.
again was that a question? i asked what you would do. it seems unfair for you to ask me what you would do. who gives the guy the other antivenin? [half of the class raises their hands.] and who goes looking for the snake?
that's usually the way it works at the leg turning black stage.
yeah.
i'm sure this goes against everything you've been taught but right and wrong do exist. just because you don't know what the right answer is <U+0096> maybe there's even no way you could know what the right answer is <U+0096> doesn't make your answer right or even okay. it's much simpler than that. it's just plain wrong.
[voiceovers] we gave the guy the antivenin.
[taking some vicodin] on average drug addicts are stupid.
good for you. a lot of doctors wouldn't risk their careers on a hunch.
i believe drug addicts get sick. actually for some reason they tend to get sick more often than non-drug addicts. luckily you don't have to play your hunch there's a faster way. actually there are several. my preference is urine testing.
that's not what i'm testing for.
we're going to put this hard rubber tube up your urethra and into your bladder. it might be a little uncomfortable.
we're concerned about allergic reactions today.
if the guy can handle a rod in his penis for half an hour he's really sick.
there's easier ways to get a hold of drugs. other hospitals for example. [he takes a mug out of the desk and sniffs it. he starts to walk off.] the volleyball player is not responding to treatment. [he leaves to go to the water fountain and yells back -- ] at least we think it's not working on account of the fact she's getting worse. can you still hear me?
[filling the mug] well if you can't hear me how do you know what i asked?
not her real name!
the question is why. likely suspects?
[slowly] the adenoma is most likely. check her pth <U+0096>
-- phosphorus and ionized calcium and do a technetium sestamibi. okay that's enough about the volleyball player. what's up with the farmer? [they all look at him.]
snakebite guy. oh right you guys don't know about him. he doesn't get bitten until three months after we treat the volleyball player. luckily it's been well established that time is not a fixed construct. [he walks over to the white board which now has writing on it pertaining to the farmer.] his condition's not improving; double the dosage.
there's another antivenin it's not as effective but <U+0096>
the first stuff the stuff he was allergic to <U+0096>
[to the camera] what does it all mean?
we tried every other antivenin we had.
yep. he's dying. his wife's here finally found a babysitter. who wants to let him know? actually i'm kidding.
oh yeah he's dying but there's no wife and kid. which is great. makes the breaking the news thing way easier. oh yeah one more piece of news.
the drug addict is peeing blood.
how do they teach you how to tell someone that they're dying? it's kind of like teaching architects how to explain why their building fell down. do you roleplay and stuff?
and what do you have to do to get an a in you're dying 101? they grade you on gentleness and supportiveness? is there a scale for measuring compassion? this buddy of mine i gotta give him ten bucks every time somebody says thank you. imagine that. this guy's so good people thank him for telling them that they're dying. [he looks at his picture.] eh needs brown. i don't get thanked that often.
you're dying. in a few hours. there's nothing we can do except deal with the pain.
you're not going home.
any of you guys go the dog route in your improv sessions? it's a basic truth of the human condition that everybody lies. the only variable is about what. the weird thing about telling someone they're dying is it tends to focus their priorities. you find out what matters to them. what they're willing to die for. what they're willing to lie for.
well you must have a neighbor who <U+0096>
then the humane society can take him in and <U+0096>
it wasn't a snakebite was it?
sure you do. just not by a snake. i assume that cujo bit one of your neighbors awhile back. you tell me that he bit you and i gotta report it. cujo's got a record he gets the chair. the good news is you might just live. the bad news is your dog's gonna die.
what would you call that? that's tea-colored right? the guy who we thought was just after the drugs what's the differential diagnosis for urine that's tea-colored?
kidney stones would cause what?
what color is your pee?
what color is your blood?
what colors did i use?
and brown. what causes brown?
which means the kidneys are shutting down. why?
none that his history would indicate.
treatment?
other possible causes.
start him on antibiotics. what else? [she pauses.] come on come on!
you're useless. but at least you know it. blood tests show elevated creatine kinase what does that tell you?
you sure?
you know what's worse than useless? useless and oblivious. [he goes to the keen student.] what are they missing?
yeah? you think it's going to be easier when you've got a real patient really dying? [to everyone] what are you missing?]
not your case.
brilliant. mri his leg see what's killing it.
because the neck scan revealed nothing and her doctor's way more obsessive than she thinks she is. [cameron sitting in the back tries not to act like that was directed at her.]
because dr. cameron back there said muscle death not one of you said it! not one of this guy's doctors said it. they gave him bed rest and antibiotics just like you guys would have.
no.
three days. it is in the nature of medicine that you are gonna screw up. you are gonna kill someone. if you can't handle that reality pick another profession. or finish medical school and teach.
no three days before the patient suggested it might have been muscle death.
his mri showed that the leg pain wasn't caused by the self-injection wasn't caused by an infection. it was an aneurysm that clotted leading to an infarction.
i don't care what you find.
i like my leg. i've had it for as long as i can remember.
they're not cutting it off.
patient made the right choice. tell a surgeon it's okay to cut a leg off and he's going to spend the night polishing his good hacksaw.
well of course they care about their patients. they just care about themselves more. which is not an unreasonable position. trying to maximize the tissue you save also maximizes the chances of something going wrong. which means you've gotta be extra careful. which is such a pain in the ass.
yeah they're just not as pretty. do a bypass restore the circulation.
for you or me?
four-day blockage.
if you restore the blood flow instead of just lopping it all off then all that crap gets washed back into my system. the cytokines could cause organ failure the potassium could cause cardiac arrest. on the other hand i may just get the use of my leg back.
i'll get through it. i understand the risks you're in the clear. go schedule an or. [cuddy leaves.]
i think i'm more of a jerk.
i'm not gonna die.
i think they gotta up that morphine.
the doctors recommended bed rest and antibiotics.
sure doesn't mean they're right.
i can handle it.
that's why i need the damn morphine!
nurse? nurse! i need more calcium gluconate.
the qrs is getting wider. my potassium is rising.
well you better make it fast cause i'm about to go into cardiac arrest. you give me the dose or i go into wide complex tachycardia.
listen it's not a narcotic! i'm not looking for a buzz. you've got about twenty seconds. [his breathing quickens and the monitors all go off.] i was wrong. [nurses and doctors enter including cuddy.]
the patient was technically dead for over a minute.
define real. they were real experiences. what they meant personally i choose to believe that the white light people sometimes see visions this patient saw. they're all just chemical reactions that take place when the brain shuts down.
there's no conclusive science. my choice has no practical relevance to my life i choose the outcome i find more comforting.
i find it more comforting to believe that this isn't simply a test.
it's bad.
it's just taking longer.
it's my leg. it's my life.
of course i would.
i would say it's their choice.
i can't i can't i'm sorry.
i know i know. i need you to talk to the doctor.
thank you. [to stacy] hey.
i'll see you when i wake up. we'll go golfing. i love you.
[going under] you've got nothing to be sorry about. [stacy gets up and walks over to cuddy.]
because of the extent of the muscle removed utility of the patient's leg was severely compromised. because of the time delay in making the diagnosis patient continues to experience chronic pain.
[half-laugh] they usually are. do you have a buzzer or something. what time does this class end?
i'm not doing this again. [picking up the world's greatest dad mug and walking toward cuddy] and this guy is not the world's greatest dad. not even ranked. who the hell lets their kids play with lead-based paint? that's why he's always sick. find him some plastic cups and the class is all his again. [he leaves leaving behind a full room of shellshocked students.]
stacy it's gregg. i've got an opening for ten tomorrow morning. make sure your husband isn't late. [he hangs up and enters his office.]
i gotta go.
he's cancelled two exams he's not gonna <U+0096>
sure. the ex-boy-toy. eh that makes sense.
right you think being afraid of me is a symptom of a serious ailment.
he's twenty minutes late. i'm outta here.
why? because he loves you and does everything he's told?
he likes to see.
hi. i'm gregg house. you must be matt.
yeah. wow.
makes sense to me.
what do you want me to do?
he says he's healthy. what's to check out?
oh he's good. if you can fake sincerity you can fake pretty much anything. i can't tell you how much i like your fella.
you know we should do things together. maybe throw a ball around or something. guy stuff.
hah! he's oscar wilde!
[raising his glass] here's to women. you can't live with em you can't kill em until the neighbors are stripping in atlantic city.
i'm definitely taller.
gar<e7>on! [translation corner: gar<e7>on means boy in french and is a not-too-nice way to address a waiter.] [he snaps his fingers to get their attention.] it's okay ladies and gentlemen nothing to worry about. unless you had the veal.
i told you i'd check him out. i was a little worried they were gonna get here before he'd passed out. would have been tougher to get him to drink. i'll give you a ride. we can talk. [stacy gives him a dirty look and walks out with the paramedics.]
morning. you guys got the file? what's wrong?
then we're done! what do you think ball game zoo? i don't care i just want to hang with you guys.
yeah sorry that was me. i had to dope him up to get him in here. guy doesn't think he's sick.
his wife.
that's her indian name. on her driver's license it's stacy. i assume you have a point.
the truth i hear voices. all the time. telling me to do stuff it's crazy huh?
i was lying. do the things the you know blah blah blah blah blah all that stuff the other docs did. if that's negative ultrasound his belly. if that's negative ct his abdomen and pelvis with and without contrast. [heading to his office] did i miss anything?
well we could certainly give that a <U+0096> oh you minx.
she's married. big clue i lost the game.
i thought she wanted me to treat him.
but what if they get close to each other? what do i do then?
please don't put me on a pedestal.
no it means we have no idea what's wrong with him. [foreman walks up.]
no today. call him. tell him i'll make it work.
[to foreman] whoa hold it! there's no need for exploratory surgery dr. cameron has a diagnosis.
no it's premature to put him on a list for hospice care. [chase and foreman both roll their eyes.] and it's maybe irresponsible to imply my actions are not rationally supported.
who says that his stomach hurts. works for me.
his wife's a lawyer. she's very convincing. call goldstein surgery's on. [house walks off then chase and foreman leaving cameron standing in the hall with her mouth hanging open.]
double milk no sugar.
you know why people sit in waiting rooms?
people think the closer they're sitting to the operating room the more they care.
are you doing anybody besides mark? [she looks at him.] it's a medical question.
knew you'd understand.
neurogenic bladder isn't causing the pain.
give me the video for the surgery.
dr. mandingo you're needed at the plantation house.
well don't everybody talk at once. [he pops a couple of vicodin.]
stop looking at the suspiciously empty bottle and look at the screen. here's why i get the big bucks. this is nothing. an enhanced version of nothing. [he plays the tape a bit then stops it.] this is the problem.
a time bomb in his brain. i forget who said it was nothing?
enough nerves die he dies.
he won't die right away. he'll just want to.
last i heard alzheimer's had a genetic component. patient have parents?
send csf or cbc and viral serologies to rule out encephalitis and get tal proteins to check for alzheimer's. and this [wielding the history] still feels a little light.
[to foreman] check out their house. take sparky with you.
you can expense the tolls.
[to foreman and chase as they leave] her secret diary: that's the main thing. but as long as you're there take a peek in the medicine cabinet. check for toxins heavy metals anything that would explain this other than encephalitis or alzheimer's. [the men leave.] and get receipts for the tolls! [cameron storms out as well.]
on the other hand prescribed to w. brown.
could be but the prescribing doc his name's real. this guy's just had his license pulled for writing illegal prescriptions to high school kids.
and mr. brown's birth date makes him 17-years-old. you think maybe these were confiscated by a high school guidance counselor? [he pockets the bottle.] anything else?
he's getting older. what did the csf say about encephalitis?
which means we're back to alzheimer's.
well then you should have told her that. he could still have it. pet scan will reveal any change in metabolic activity in the cerebral cortex run him through. and check his memory.
i like all the pretty lights. [the tech injects the chemical and mark starts to enter the machine.]
jeez what a guy. his frontal lobe is working way better than mine. [into the mike] you remember when you got married?
what? there could be a problem with his long-term memory. [in the mike] big church wedding?
he remembers voices.
i thought you skimped on the limbic system there. emotional reactions i just want to be thorough. [in the mike] did the atheistic bride wear a pretty white dress?
what jewelry did your bride wear?
i think i upset him.
a little defensive.
here we go. [stacy shoves him.]
the questions were designed to define the operational parameters of his limbic system <U+0096>
medical screwing. it's what i do.
i haven't been up here in five years. [a lengthy awkward pause] i don't know what's wrong with him. it's not alzheimer's it's not encephalitis it's not environmental it's not immunological. every test is negative every time. he's perfectly healthy but his brain is dying.
i haven't given up.
we wait.
something to change. it's one of the great tragedies of life something always [they break apart] something always changes.
time marches on. he's paralyzed.
it's peripheral. guillain-barre syndrome attacks there not the brain.
initiative! like that. start him on iv immunosuppress<U+0097>
period? more like dot dot dot. what if he has the virus but isn't producing those antibodies?
i didn't ask about the vegas line i said what if?
fatal sounds very bad to me.
the treatment isn't all that dangerous plasmapheresis and ivig. if it works we're right. if he dies it was something else.
stop that.
no he's not. look at his vitals. o2 stats are within range. i'm betting the only abnormal sign is sweaty palms. [stacy still holding his hand nods.] push two milligrams ativan. [she pushes it and mark calms down.] just a panic attack. something obviously freaked him out. can we talk now?
he's had five visitors drive down. i didn't recognize any of them. six more have sent him flowers candy and a teddy bear which i'm sure he finds very comforting. but i didn't recognize any of the names on the cards.
no it's not shocking that you have new friends. but it is shocking that you apparently dumped all your old ones.
no i didn't think so. i just think you didn't tell any of them that you were down here. now why would that be? [a doctor comes to use the telephone at the desk; they move to another spot.] why would you not tell your oldest friends that you were taking mark to princeton-plainsboro teaching hospital to try to save his life?
see my old friends are telling me to be careful. they seem to think <U+0096>
figures. he seems to think that i'm not over you. it might be dangerous for me to spend time with you. i'm thinking your friends might have similar concerns. and so you didn't tell him you'd be here with me.
no.
love the bear it was adorable.
i got mark's latest blood work he's not responding to treatment.
i was happy. he's my patient. i'm sure he's a good guy he's probably a great guy. probably a much better guy than i am. and some part of me wants him to die. i'm just not sure if it's because i want to be with her or if it's because i want her to suffer.
hey. is it okay if i talk to stacy for a minute?
you two are good together.
he took you to paris that's good enough for me.
your honeymoon. it's been your dream city you wanted to go since you were sixteen he actually took you.
when did mark switch from mountain biking to yoga?
we have two more symptoms.
patient was asked a series of questions to determine the functionality of his brain.
whatever. yeah point is he told us everything we needed to know to diagnose him that is if we use your fancy pet scan as a lie detector. see it's a very creative process lying. now telling the truth is a much simpler process. see here. question nine this is where mark gives a long rambling answer about taking stacy to paris. what does the pet scan say?
they didn't go. they didn't go to paris and yet mark's brain apparently thinks that he really did spend 40 francs on a tour of the bastille. [he starts to erase the white board.] so we have an intermittent syndrome that presents with abdominal pain polyneuropathy paranoia and delusions. now here's the thing about acute intermittent porphyria. it'll jump you in a dark alley beat the crap out of you leave you bleeding. but it leaves gloves so no fingerprints. doesn't show up in blood tests urine tests nothing. unless you catch it red handed in the middle of an attack.
such as?
yeah well one of the true tragedies of this condition is it makes you want to stick your cool new mountain bike in the garage and take up an indoor sport like say yoga. start the treatment: hematin and glucose.
sure there is.
acute intermittent porphyria has very specific triggers. barbiturates alcohol high levels of protein set off an attack.
not the faintest idea that's why i'm going to give him the combo plate.
yeah. but then we'll know what it is and we can treat it.
no idea. if we don't know what's messing up your brain we don't know how you'll react.
no idea. next attack could be fatal. could be six months from now could be five minutes from now.
fine. i'll send for a hmb synthetase mutation genetic test. lab will get back to us in a month.
no.
because he doesn't want me to.
he might.
i'm not gonna do it.
you keep asking me that question; my answer doesn't change. i gave him the parameters it's his call.
i diagnosed him i did my job. you want somebody to tie him down and force him into treatment well you're way better at that than i am.
yeah maybe.
no he's going to die because he's too stubborn to make the right choice.
i'm respecting your husband's decision i don't see why you've got a problem with that.
he'll never forgive you.
[at the doorway] boy are my ears burning.
[holding up a syringe] cocktail hour. just because you can't hoist a few doesn't mean you should be left out.
smart. too bad you're paralyzed. [he takes the iv to push the syringe but foreman stops him.] bing! paging dr. foreman! leave the room. it's not your problem.
doc he ain't right in the head!
okay then get one. we'll wait here. i won't do nothin'. [the three ducklings have moved so they're forming a wall between house and mark's bed.] oh love the musketeer thing. i got goosebumps.
so what's your plan? you take the big dark one i've got the little girl and the aussie will run like a scared wombat if things turn rough. i can't do it. [he turns away everyone relaxes and then boom! house sticks the syringe in mark's leg.]
see what i did there?
everyone's different.
no you'll pollute the sample! chase get urine from the catheter.
this is not a stroke! delta wave bursts just at the base of the spasm. [the catheter falls to the floor.]
hold him down!
no pain killers!
straight from the bladder that's as fresh as it gets. will you give him the ativan already? he doesn't need to be awake for this.
[grabbing a lamp] move.
organic chem.. more lights more oxidation. ring any bells? [the sample turns black.] start the patient on 150 milligrams glucose 75 milligrams hematin. [the three younger doctors leave leaving house alone to breathe.]
[looking in again] never better.
de nada.
he's gonna be fine.
so i'm the guy but you want the other guy who by definition can never be the guy.
okay. [stacy kisses him on the cheek then leaves.]
[loudly] i will not have sex with you! not again! miserable that first time. all that desperate administrative need <U+0096>
did she say yes?
fine. good.
