i'm leaving.
i'm resigning. maybe moving out of new jersey. i don't know yet.
it's not a reaction. it's a decision. i'm writing cuddy my resignation right now. i'm just back for the week to wrap up my clinical and administrative duties.
well that spares me decades of psychoanalysis.
you're saying my pain's a cliché.
did yours?
i'd rather have my leg chopped off.
neither have you.
my girlfriend's dead. i'm glad you've read that book before. i haven’t. i'm late to meet dr. olin to brief him on the cases i’m handing over. bye.
i'd need a flow chart to explain all the ways in which that was ridiculously insensitive.
this isn't your business.
then we all need a little tea and sympathy. i'm through discussing it.
actually i'm —
i'm leaving the hospital.
i just need a change of scenery.
you could ask house to be a grown-up and respect my decision.
it's for you.
i wouldn't believe you.
it's hard to imagine such a world.
you can't be s… that's blackmail. and to do your job? why not hold a gun to your own head?
you'd jeopardize a patient because of my —
i've gotta do what's right for me. you've gotta do what's right for you.
this is your 911? good-bye.
[equally pleasantly] fine thanks.
she hasn't told you in front of me. she needs to prove she's on my side.
nobody at this hospital even liked amber. [he leaves slamming the door behind him.]
i'm gonna miss you.
did house ask you to talk to me or are you trying to save the patient? because there'll always be another —
and you're doing it.
thanks. [he starts to leave.]
are you saying the pain doesn’t go away?
being here… this building… i was just in the lounge. i kept staring at amber's locker.
i have to do something.
you want me to make the call?
and this isn't just a pretext to pressure me into staying?
no. she really is dying isn't she? inflammation enlarged nuclei some mitotic activity. it could be lymphoma.
it makes it less likely but it doesn't rule it out. i'm an oncologist. i see cancer. show it to an immunologist they'll see autoimmune.
it's not that i want to.
i don't blame you. i wanted to. i tried to. i must have reviewed amber's case file 100 times to find a way. but it wasn't your fault.
we're not okay. amber was never the reason i was leaving. i didn't want to tell you because… because i was trying like i always do to protect you. which is the problem. you spread misery because you can't feel anything else. you manipulate people because you can't handle any kind of real relationship. and i've enabled it. for years. the games the binges the middle-of-the-night phone calls. [he stops and rubs his eyes.] i should have been the one on the bus not —you should have been alone on the bus. if i've learned anything from amber it's that i have to take care of myself. we're not friends anymore house. i'm not sure we ever were.
there are other oncologists.
that's not the way it works.
house please go away.
don't do this. please. please. don't do this. i'm trying to move on.
[sighs] you didn't.
you had no right —
i have the right to walk away from you house. there's a world beyond you. you need to realize that and even if you don't i'm moving on. the next time you knock i'm not answering.
i am not doing this because i care.
i'm doing this for your mom.
there's a rest stop in five miles.
the restroom's right there. you can make it on your own.
you don't want to say anything don't say anything but go. tell your mom you're sad for her.
she wants to think for a moment that she had a happy family. so give her a gift — lie!
when things go wrong i like to be ready. will you… please hold the flashlight for a minute?
you know those aren't just my car keys. my house keys are on there too. amber gave me that key chain.
is probably responding to a childish pointless act of petulance.
well i hate to break it to you che but simple delay won't work. your mother will hold the funeral till we get there.
yeah yeah you clearly have no issues to work through.
[pulling the keys out on the hanger] the dark side's done house. i'm delivering you to your mother and that's it. i’ve moved on. [he slams the car trunk closed.]
so he was a bastard. he was still your father. you're biologically programmed to have feelings for him.
feelings aren't rational. i know you have trouble with anything that can't be quantified and counted.
of course. you were a brilliant socially isolated 12-year-old and you create a parallel universe in which your life doesn't suck.
and since you're 150 years old air travel was impossible.
this is sad. you don't believe your mother screwed around —
if you believed this story you wouldn't be telling me about his birthmarks. you'd be telling me about the genetic testing you had done. [house notices a police car ahead of them.] and since you haven't mentioned it obviously you didn't do it. because you don't want to — house what are you doing? [house has jammed his cane against the accelerator.] get your — get off the — there's a cop!
i'm not playing house.
i'm just trying to speed things along. you are going to this funeral.
officer if you want to give me a ticket i totally understand.
[to house] you told me you'd taken care of this.
first words you ever said to me.
[to costello] sir? not to hurry you but we need to be at a funeral in —
it's a really old warrant. isn't there a statute of limitations on this kind of thing?
i didn't flee the state. i left the state. because i don't live in the state. and the charges were just so minor…
there is a simple explanation. there was a medical convention in new orleans…
i was fresh out of med school. i didn't know anybody at the convention.
[very angry] i am not gonna sit here wasting time just so you can avoid your father's funeral! [costello looks at them interested.]
i was at the hotel bar trying to unwind have a drink. there was this guy who kept playing billy joel’s leave a tender moment alone on the jukebox.
so i — i asked the man to stop politely.
i was polite the first couple of times but courtesy made no impression on this ass. so i threw a bottle into the mirror which successfully conveyed my message.
i had nothing to do with that fight. the assault charge was totally bogus. and i paid for the mirror.
that's how we met. i was in jail.
and there's the foundation of our entire friendship. if you hadn't been bored one weekend it wouldn't even exist.
it also says something that you lied to me about getting the charges dropped!
everybody with your misdemeanor experience.
i'm not lost.
i'm not lost.
good heavens we haven't missed it after all. it's like the end of a christmas carol.
i'm sure you know him better than i do.
right he had no influence on you at all. the father who was compulsive about punctuality.
thereby making it your issue. compulsively showing up four hours late ignoring discipline ignoring rules.
who's here? [looks] the one you're pretending is your father? nice pick. he looks like sean connery. so back when you were devising this fantasy did you tell your father: dad i refuse to recognize your existence because i have chosen james bond as my dad?
what? hearing that your own son hates you so much he's replaced you in his mind? that's gotta suck. how did he take it?
put it back.
i'm done enabling. you can't even let them put him in the ground without making it serve your agenda?
how can i still feel surprise? you would take even this a moment of real human grief and turn it into a farce.
yes that's why i'm cheering you on now.
don't bring amber into this.
what happened out there is your show!
i'm not scared to death. i'm moving forward!
oh ho ho ho ho. your father's death is about you. amber's death is about you. i can't imagine why someone wouldn't want to be your friend!
i'm not angry i'm not scared.
i'm not afraid.
i've lost people. it happens.
what are you five? stop repeating —
did you know i was gonna do that? because i didn't know i was gonna do that.
diamond fairbairn.
did you know that when you bailed me out? were you… doing something nice for me?
we owe your mom an apology.
you know you could just wait for the mri to have your curiosity satisfied.
fine.
i'm a middle-aged chinese woman.
i'm frightened because she's a threat? maybe she knows something?
maybe an inheritance issue.
her very presence is a threat. she — what year was she born?
she's not supposed to be alive. china introduced the one-child policy in 1979. say they didn't want a girl. they tried to kill her.
who freaks out like she's seen a ghost 25 years later when the girl shows up.
maybe they gave her something toxic. it would have to be fat-soluble.
i hear your patient's gonna be all right.
something goin' on?
your dna test showed no match? that's incredible. at the age of 12 you actually figured out your father wasn't your birth father? that's what you wanted wasn't it? why should it depress you?
well i guess nobody gets to choose who their parents are. i'm not even sure anymore if we get to choose who our friends are. [pause] i spoke with cuddy. she hasn't filled my position yet.
i'm coming back because you're right. that strange annoying trip we just took was the most fun i've had since amber died.
yeah?
yeah. my sympathies.
i had a breakfast meeting at mickey’s diner with the mercy people to tell them… (wilson sees a donut on a plate and a carton of milk behind the bookshelf) i’m coming back to work here. (he pulls the plate and the milk toward himself) sorry if it interfered with your plan to maim me. (pause) donut’s a nice touch. (he takes a bite of the donut)
me too. me trying to work. you interrupting.
actually yes. i sort of started dating someone.
no. why would you think that?
she’s not… you’re gonna find out anyway because you're gonna meet her. she’s… a prostitute. used to be. she made some mistakes. single mom had some drug issues. but… she's so smart. she wants to go to law school. and… i told her i’d help her with tuition.
i knew you'd be like this.
house… you are a drug addict. you go to prostitutes. you can't be judgmental.
please don't do this to me. i was hurting and i wanted to feel good. i didn't expect it… to go this way. i… amber… said that she wanted me to move on. that she wanted me to… be happy. and — debbie makes me happy.
damn. i knew the fake works was too much.
cane prints. i’m actually kind of insulted. no way i’m a drug addict but you completely buy that i fell in love with a prostitute?
best $30 i ever spent.
unfortunately i killed her and buried her in the basement.
yeah. (wilson gets up)
ugh don't make me do this again. it has nothing to do with you.
(putting on his jacket) we’re going bowling on monday. i’m coming over to play poker this weekend. nothing’s changed. you have to trust that.
you’re gonna keep following me aren't you?
be outside my apartment at 8:00 tonight. (house gets up grinning triumphantly)
i’m so sorry. he must've followed me.
she asked me to be a character reference. that’s where i was the other morning. i’m sorry. i couldn't betray her confidence.
[without looking up] it's not cancer.
you're here to talk about cuddy. the file is a pretext. [he starts shining the apple.]
if she can't handle your insanity she can't handle a baby.
no it isn't. you're feeling threatened because she's going onto high school and leaving you behind to repeat the eighth grade.
adoption is cheating? are they giving her a fake kid?
well it does seem cleaner. [house tosses the box on the table.] i've seen the file. she's making a judgment call.
just like your decision to make her miserable. you're doing this because we no longer have inkwells and cuddy doesn't have pigtails.
cuddy is positively aglow. what's your theory? she's only acting happy to make you miserable?
i'm sure you're carrying a few.
you paid off the pool? technically anyone who didn't enter is a winner.
adoption's a cheat remember? there's no real pregnancy so there's no stranded dopamine receptors so there's no postpartum depression. cuddy will be the happiest new mother you've ever seen. [house stares.] i've just given you the answer haven't i? and now you're going to walk out of here without saying a word.
(sighing) did you speak to cuddy last night?
you spoke to her?
wha — what?
you hit? like making out or full-on sex or —
wh — what are you gonna do?
don't care about the bug bite. she's your boss.
there's a reason.
you were hiding it from me means it meant something to you.
stop scratching. you'll draw blood.
if you… dated cuddy… there would —
how you doin'?
great. everything else good?
it's funny. i've leaned on friends in the past. never leaned so far my tongue fell into their mouths.
why not?
yeah. well it certainly proves you've never thought about house that way.
that's not my point. maybe novelty and hostility and forbiddenness doesn't have to end bad.
it's like the red badge of idiocy.
she kicked you off the case. this is what happens when you don't address it. she acts weird things get different.
no she always chastises you. and you'd always come running to me to complain. so you're acting different too. you're scared. you are scared to get involved.
any relationship that doesn't end in a breakup ends in death. everything falls apart in the end. that's your worldview. the corollary which you keep forgetting is that you have to grab any chance for happiness.
i don't want you to be fine. i want you to be happy. i think if you dated her —
if i wanted to ask her out —
i don't know. i wasn't interested.
i'm not here to play matchmaker.
house basically… well he accused me of being interested in you.
i know. but i do have… i've always… had… some feelings for you.
no. i — i — it wouldn’t be fair to house and it's too soon after amber.
yeah. i thought you should know.
okay.
pardon me?
yes. you think it'll work?
have you considered that it's not my place you really want to be walking into right now?
yeah she's a little nuts. but she's beautiful smart funny and most important she can stand you.
house there is no mosquito. this is all about cuddy.
have you seen this bug?
no. what i've seen is a suppurating wound that you've scratched and mutilated into a gangrenous state. delusional parasitosis.
house you're a drug addict. you're always imagining things. you got bitten the night you kissed her. your itching always gets worse when you think about her. you need to address this.
no you're not afraid of authority. you're afraid she actually is right for you. you're afraid to take a chance because it's too big a chance. if it doesn't work with her then maybe there’s no one out there.
you're not staying here.
no. you can go home. (he pushes house off the sofa) or you're going to cuddy's (house gets up and moves toward the front door) gonna ring her doorbell… and you're gonna ask her out on a date (he pats house on the back) like regular people do.
(pushing house out the door) buh-bye. (wilson closes his door)
good morning.
so i take it you did not ask cuddy out.
yeah i didn't or yeah i did?
oh. (he lets go of the elevator door which starts to close. house prevents it from closing with his cane]
no.
whichever one means no.
no. (a buzzer starts going off in the elevator)
house? (house reluctantly lets the elevator door close)
huh.
i'm scrubbing.
huh means acknowledging. if you prefer i could say ha or hmm or —
you made the decision. i can't tell you what's right for you.
do you want me to tell you what you should do?
interesting.
i can see that.
i sound convoluted.
so my not doing anything isn't causing you to do anything?
i'm okay with that.
i'm starting to sound desperate.
don't screw with my stuff.
nice thing you did for foreman.
he deflects.
well you knew foreman would figure it out.
you just needed to prove it to him. you're an ass. but a noble one.
thank you.
you wanna talk about her?
alright.
you're gonna be okay house.
everything okay in there?
lung cancer usually shows up lower than the seventh nerve. did you check his throat?
if there's swelling it's a pancoast tumor that's metastasized.
are you insane?
three hours ago he had superhero hearing.
house's office? really?
well there are dozens of other doctors —
it's his process. that ball saves lives.
yeah but i added one of my own. don't take his office and pretend like all you're doing is taking his office. you chose his room because you want to be there. but sitting near him and hoping isn't gonna get it done.
no you won't.
you going over the fence?
you did do the math on this right? screwing with her office means her renovations will take longer. means she will be in your office longer.
she'll be with you where you claim to not want her.
i think in some ancient cultures that was actually considered a proposal of marriage.
ask her out. it'll cost the hospital a lot less.
i like the desk. lot of character.
you have it in storage or something?
that was sweet of her to do that.
if it ‘s a subpoena he’s gotten that kind of present before.
that narrows it down. just look for someone who knows how to read or has been to a bookstore.
did it have a note?
green wrapping paper.
[nods a few times] it’s nothing.
[fidgets a bit more] irene adler. christmas 2001. sarcoid symptoms but she didn’t respond to methotrexate. i’ve never seen him so obsessed. he saved her with a last-minute wegener’s diagnosis but the hours he put in… i thought it would kill him. and then… well he fell for her. but it was too soon after stacy and… it sounds silly but irene was the one who got away.
no you idiots. house is just screwing with you. you think there’s some woman with a mysterious green wrapping paper trademark?
i could be wrong. it’s possible a secret admirer gave house the same book i gave him last christmas. [beeper sounds] and the same paper i wrapped it in. and the note i wrote.
you had my present for a year and didn’t even open it?
completely meaningless prank even for you. [he gets another ice cream sandwich]
[paying for their food] of all the ways to mess with people why give yourself an imaginary present?
yes. [house pauses while eating the ice cream to stare at wilson.] the holidays. they’re hard for you. i get it. [they sit at a table] you see the people around you giving and receiving gifts having sustained meaningful relationships. and since you can’t something deep in your subconscious makes you create the appearance of a gift. it’s sad.
it’s too bad you can’t just be nice to people. you could get a real present that way.
you just wind up insulting her. perhaps calling her “mrs. moron.”
being kind in a sustained meaningful way? no.
yeah. that actually is what i’m trying to do. and the pathetic part is it’s not going to work.
maybe but it’s higher than you’d expect. start her on chemo.
if it’s leukemia even if we kill every cancer cell her heart and liver are too far gone.
with brain involvement? the committee won’t even open the file. there’s no reason to put a dying girl through a painful treatment if you can’t save her. [cuddy lets this sink in] he’s being kind.
is it too big?
i take it the home inspection was pushed back.
you do realize that's a good thing?
so you buy another briefcase.
you passed the inspection. the patient lived. the car is still in the driveway. and the next time my nanny gets sick when house wants to saw someone in half?
did i mention you passed the inspection?
why do women always do that?
create ridiculous standards that no human could meet with your careers with your kids. you got to be more like us men.
get help! most men in your position have a deputy and two assistants at work and a wife and two nannies at home. you’re not superwoman. don’t be a martyr.
she's beautiful.
absolutely. what's she like?
my cousin had a kid. they acted like they knew the thing from the time it was two minutes old. i just… i just thought…
what's wrong?
you're tired.
lisa… if you're…
[looking at his watch] you still here? the whole point of giving cameron the job was so that you could —
he's not. he never is not when it's anything personal or human or…
parents make sacrifices.
i… i… i don't know what to say.
just open it.
the picture is actually your gift. that's your baby. i took her picture to one of those places that does that age-enhancement thing. and according to the kid who works there this is a pretty good approximation of what your daughter will look like 18 years from now.
right now she's just this weird little creature that sleeps and poops and cries. but that… is who she's gonna be. you will be teaching her how to ride a bike giving her advice about friends and school and having her heart broken. she'll ignore most of it but some of it'll stick. you're gonna be there for her through all of that. you just have to get through this part. that's all.
don't worry about it. it's just the picture that came with the frame. you can chuck it.
i hear cuddy's seal training finally came in handy. should i be investing in a flak jacket?
no carpet bombing? no burning of dresden to teach her a lesson? well since you're incapable of taking the high road i assume there's some deeper more long-term strategy in effect.
and your counter-move is to let her have it?
yeah that makes sense too.
i was thinking you actually feel guilty about taking her away from her baby. but your explanation's good too. it's completely inconsistent with your character but whatever.
(picking up the file from the exam table) you forgot your file. (he sees the name on the file) dana miller? the cancer researcher?
dr. miller i doubt if you'll remember me —
impressive. you want some cortisone for that itch?
why did you quit?
do you want me to congratulate you? i've got four kids in pede-onc right now who are gonna die. three of them within a year the other in a few days probably.
maybe. (he scoffs) i — i... i'm in the trenches. i'm — i'm doing triage as best i can. you had the chance to end the war. how is someone like me supposed to keep fighting when someone like you just... walked away?
you gonna tip housekeeping?
don't tell me — she burned your apartment to the ground.
(checking house’s cell phone which is lying on the table) you have 17 messages. (tossing the phone to house) and your non-involvement strategy doesn't seem to be working.
you're hurting him.
you're physically hurting him.
what's the point? what do you think you're going to accomplish?
you're not miserable!
you're here because you like this. you like working with him.
fire him and go be home with your new baby.
what he does is who he is. and the same goes for you.
a little pinch. i'm sorry about the other day. i... unloaded on you. and...
i'm not apologizing because you're dying. i'm apologizing because you were right. i am stuck. my girlfriend died. she was the only person i've loved for a long time and... i'm still living in her apartment. i'm surrounded by her things. i have left it all exactly where it was. i don't know how to get unstuck.
(nodding) yeah. (inserting the biopsy needle) all right.
mesothelioma doesn't bleed.
avm's secondary to schistosomiasis.
i have no choice. i'm part of the ceremony.
it's one night for a friend.
i thought you had an orgy planned.
are you lying about the brubeck tickets?
i'll be fine and so will cuddy if you don't show up. i'm surprised she even invited you.
since when have your failed attempts at communication through lies become my fault?
why the hell are you going to cuddy's baby naming? (they stop walking) it's a religious ceremony. it's boring. why waste a good evening that could be much better spent in a drunken stupor feeling sorry for yourself?
okay? okay you won't go?
(heaving a sigh of frustration) why are you doing this?
you always have a reason. it's usually a bad one but a reason.
see that's an example from the bad category. is it resentment? the stork brought home a new baby and you don't want to share mommy? or you just can't stand to see others happy?
don't you hate when they put the mushrooms underneath the cheese?
it would depend on what she was serving. everyone's a hypocrite. why are you suddenly so obsessed with cuddy's particular brand?
(pointing a finger at house) you're the hypocrite! you want to go! you don't resent this baby. you wanna be a part of it.
this is ridiculous. you two deserve each other. if you wanna go just go and act like a human being.
any second thoughts about cuddy?
raising a child on her own is scary. she's just doing what you do what everyone does — trying to avoid pain.
i'm not. i'm trying to give you a rational reason to overlook her hypocrisy so you don't feel like a hypocrite for going.
okay. even if an absolute truth exists we can't know all of it and you can't condemn her for recognizing that.
are you eliminating symptoms?
this is medicine not metaphysics.
it doesn't fit. you can't eliminate a symptom.
well what is it?
have at it.
did you just ask my permission before you took my food?
who’s he making miserable now?
it’s a valid medical theory.
maybe he had a great cup of coffee or a tremendous bowel movement. bottom line is your boss is in a good mood stop analyzing it and just enjoy it.
you slept with house.
he asked permission before taking my bagel took the case without a fight honored the parents’ request for an mri.
he’s in a good mood.
if you two aren’t keeping something from me that means he’s keeping something from both of us. that can’t be good.
(considering what cuddy just said) hmm.
stop pretending to be asleep we’re not leaving. house. (wilson kicks the ottoman. house’s head lolls to the side he does not wake up)
house (he’s worried now. he leans down to feel for a pulse) house.
he’s not breathing.
barely.
get an ambu bag from the nurses station.
you stopped breathing.
the only reason you’d ignore a near death experience is you don’t care or you already know why it happened.
you didn’t take any yesterday at breakfast either.
(realizing something) he’s on heroin.
number one he’s happy which means he’s high. number two when he moved his bad leg he didn’t use his hands to support it. whatever he’s taking it’s stronger than vicodin.
hello.
(haltingly) well that’s certainly an interesting notion.
uh we’ll runs some tests and i’ll let you know.
well that would certainly explain the inappropriate responses. i gotta go. okay. (to house while putting his phone back in his pocket) sorry consult.
when you were in the bathroom. i thought a celebration was in order. to cheating death.
you off bourbon? we can get you something else.
you never listen. so why —
you seem fine now.
funny how i’m usually right.
well? (wanting house to prove he’s not on heroin)
you idiot!
heroin. heroin! house of all the stupid —
(angry) i just caught you with your fingers down your throat.
yeah and twice the risk of death.
you nearly died.
right you're safe as long as you never sleep again. mistime your dose you die. couple of drinks you die. mix it with the wrong drugs you die. you want to detox from vicodin? pick something that won't kill you.
if you're looking for something to help with your pain —
hi is house here?
okay. (wilson sidles by her like he’s afraid to touch her. he closes the door)
(to house) who was she?
home nurses usually wear scrubs.
you hired a hooker to watch you sleep? that just can't (he stops as house walks into the living room. he looks astonished)
you shaved.
you have two ties?
sounds great. i just came by to check up on you. see how you were doing.
i guess you are.
we made a mistake.
the methadone's good for him.
he shaved. he was wearing a tie. he has a meeting at st. sebastian.
cuddy he's happy.
okay maybe but he's our friend. and this is his one chance to not be miserable.
i can’t.
i understand monster truck code. do you understand can't?
all right it's not can’t. it's don't want to. the fact is i just don't like monster trucks.
no i don't.
no you've always liked them. i've tolerated them.
i'm not hiding it. i'm saying it loud and proud. death to monster trucks. (kutner approaches)
you always led me to believe you were one of a kind.
but he's also gonna be the guy who doesn't say them. if he spent his whole life constructing this nice guy persona isn't that as much who he really is as anything else?
just my persona.
so that wasn't an insult?
i'm not always nice. i'm not nice to you.
because when my parents put me in the rocket and sent me here they said james you will grow to manhood under a yellow sun.
i didn’t.
i'm playing racquetball tomorrow night with taub.
because the world revolves around you. i devote time to anyone else you'd end up stalking me and harassing them.
and maybe i didn't want to rub your nose in the fact that we'd be doing something you can no longer do. because i'm nice. (he picks up his lunch tray and leaves)
uh why?
is there an emergency?
(reading his messages) maybe you just don't have a good statistical sampling of my walks.
taub. another graduate of the house school of being a dick.
look i'd love to stay for the full inquisition but i need some hot coffee.
(getting his coffee) you're going to tell me why i forgot my coat?
(angrily) has it ever occurred to you that when i don't share something it might not be meant as a challenge? it might just mean that i'd like there to be one molecule of my life that goes unexamined by gregory house. (wilson leaves)
i may have overreacted.
i knew you'd meet me halfway.
maybe the reason i don't always open up to you is because it's redundant.
there have been new anti-psychotics developed since he ran away. he's been on them for a couple of days and by tonight he should be in shape to talk to me.
i'll be in new york in a few hours and i guess i'll find out.
house you and i… we don't have the normal social contract. i don't expect you to tell me the lies —
i mean collaborative lies. giving someone a hand who maybe needs to deceive themselves just a little. (wilson gets up) for two days i've been thinking about how danny’s gonna react when he sees me. if i said that to anybody else they'd say don't worry it’ll all be all right. you wouldn't.
(he laughs) yeah. yeah it might. (he turns to leave)
13 years ago. i used to go to princeton whenever i could. i must have hit every homeless shelter in town. and then one day i’m just sitting at this deli having a sandwich i look out the window and there he is. he was gone by the time i got outside.
that's the team. shouldn't you answer?
go ahead.
the schizophrenia started when he was a teenager. when he was in college… he was on meds but he'd still think a professor was out to get him because he got a b or he'd fight with his roommates because he never showered.
med school. he called me every day. talked for hours. i didn't have hours.
i was tired of being the guy that everybody counted on so one night danny called — one night danny called crying upset about something. i had to study for an exam. so i — i hung up… took my things. i went to the library so i wouldn't have to hear the phone ring.
my mother called me the next day. danny had run away and left his meds behind. which i knew meant that he would never be able to choose to come back because he'd be so detached from reality.
you don't think that's a little facile?
it was a pretty big event.
we're not talking about my brother anymore are we?
since this is a significant moment in my life and all i… (he shrugs)
(talking to house who is not listening) i think i'll just go in then.
right. (he picks up his coat and follows the attendant out of the waiting room. house is too focused to notice)
i'll be seeing danny again next week. i'd like you to meet him.
i thought seeing him again would change everything. it would be wonderful or terrible. instead… we're just strangers. it's kind of anticlimactic.
go on.
(laughs) my whole life is one big compromise. i tiptoe around everyone like they're made of china. i spend all my time analyzing: what will the effect be if i say this? then there's you. you're a reality junkie. if i offered you a comforting lie you'd smack me over the head with it. let's not change that.
no see this — if you were implementing the social contract you'd say that but only because… it makes me feel better…
do you think things will work out with my brother?
thanks house.
absolutely.
you’re trying to prove to her she's not dying?
this woman lost her kid. why are you attacking beliefs that give her a little bit of comfort?
oh. maybe that could make her as happy as you are. [the elevator arrives and they step inside.] where are we going?
you already experimented on the coma guy. haven't you proved your point?
why are you so obsessed with this? can't you just call her an idiot and leave everyone alone?
no okay. uh kids playtime's over. [the kids leave.] you know what this is a good thing. because either you're starting to doubt yourself which is healthy or —
or you're starting to give a crap what other people think. which is just another way of saying you give a crap about other people.
what exactly are you hoping to find inside your dead coma guy?
i've got to stop telling you my theories. you always just try to prove me wrong.
normally you'd be up in the patient room hectoring her on what to do. instead you're up to your elbows in some irrelevant dead guy who may or may not be connected to a magic cat because you want to prove to me that you don't care.
i put up with your obsessions. i even encourage them for one reason: they save lives. i don't know what you're doing now.
yes dead people are renowned for their warm glow.
wasting doesn't…
congrats. because of your crazy obsession with this cat you've solved a completely trivial mystery.
cancer. a corticotropin-producing carcinoid tumor of the intestine. but your pillcam didn't find anything.
the appendix. congratulations you probably saved her life. you definitely saved her needless surgery.
[approaches] hey just curious… what’re you driving up to middletown for?
because i'm your friend.
yeah i heard that. it used to belong to a guitarist who died in a motorcycle accident. it just reeks of you screwing with people. your crash was ten miles from the orange county progressive pain clinic.
if you're going to another state to get more narcotics…
you wouldn't do that.
would you?
i called the ex-ex-ex-wife. she was at a sweat lodge in new mexico last week. what were you really doing in new york?
why are you being so evasive? unless you have something to evade.
one of your hookers arrange a conjugal visit?
you weren't visiting foreman's brother either.
i had prison security check visitor logs phone records. you've never had any contact with anyone at fishkill. so i ask again… what were you doing up in middletown?
stop deflecting house.
how… how did you know?
we've only been out a few times.
[laughs] you think this is oedipal?
house. you left this in my office. [he hands house a cell phone.]
oh that's right i remember now i stole it. because if you had gone up there to check out my girlfriend you wouldn't have come back here and lied to me about it. you would've thrown her right in my face.
and then there were all those calls you weren't taking in front of me. [house stops and turns to look at wilson.] so i dialed the number of the calls you weren't taking. you're seeing a psychiatrist.
is… is that…?
you're spying on your team.
i don't want to torture you at all. i think this is a great thing. not something you have to drive an hour out of town to shroud in mystery.
so your attitude about therapy clearly hasn't changed. and yet you went. which leads me to believe that maybe something else has changed. [the stop by the elevator.] maybe you think you can change. credit cuddy with that.
oh house please… i assume you went because you're tired of screwing up every chance you get at happiness.
do not let the fact that i found out about it —
you'll end up alone.
i can’t deal with this and house.
you couldn’t give a crap what i need. you just want someone to take care of him.
for the record i’m uncomfortable violating a dead colleague’s dignity.
what are we looking for?
shame? fear? are you okay? it’s okay not to be okay.
he was obviously in pain. does it really matter why?
here’s how we’re going to handle this house. we’re going to leave here and go to the closest bar and drink and tell stories about the time kutner almost blew up an or. and pass out in our own sick. sound like a plan?
you’re not here because you care about kutner. you’re here because it’s a mystery. you’re here for the puzzle.
i was wrong about you.
you’re in pain.
you worked with him every day for two years and you never saw this coming.
but you see everything coming. this has never been about what you missed. this is about why you missed it. you’re terrified that you’re losing your gift losing… who you are. and i’m terrified of what you’d do then.
cameron is happy in the er. there’s no way she wants her nose back on your grindstone. [he orders] egg white omelet no bacon whole wheat toast.
an omelet.
yes. but i don’t like eating the same thing two days in a row.
i’m just not in the mood for bacon. and you’re obviously trying to avoid talking about kutner. which is odd because you spent a whole week obsessing about why —
you’re wearing the watch he gave you for secret santa.
you gonna order?
come on in house. [he opens the door] because who else is it going to be at 10:30 at night? and no thanks i already ate.
but you were going to. and when i explained that i’d eaten hours ago you were going to move on to your real entrée rifling through my kitchen.
or it means it’s late i’m tired i know you’re here to advance some paranoid theory based on a single egg white omelet and i’d like to get it over with so we can both go to sleep.
the warren commission found no evidence of a second lunch. possibly because it was stolen from the doctor’s lounge.
you checked my — ?
how could kutner have any conceivable —
that’s brilliant. kutner was a wake-up call that if i didn’t eat healthier i might kill myself.
and… ice cream is ice cream. [he takes a half gallon out of the freezer] full fat content. quadruple fat content. [he shows house a package of bacon. next he hands house a bag of chips from the shelf above the refrigerator.]
you were hoping for evidence of stuff i have eaten? first door on the right.
even if i had changed my diet what possible reason could i have for hiding it from you?
have you retraced your steps? does your cleaning lady check your pockets before —
no one saw anything coming with kutner. you hardly ever see cameron anymore. and you hired taub to come up with ideas that you wouldn’t have come up with.
good.
house a guy you worked with for two years who you mentored and yes possibly even cared about just blew his brains out. you can’t find the reason can’t find meaning in it because sometimes there isn’t any. sometimes… this is all there is. you should be losing it. you’d be crazy not to be off your game. but your mojo is right where you left it. just… keep playing with it. i gotta go. help yourself. [he gestures toward the carrots.]
[playing $25000 pyramid] things you use to make bratwurst.
definitely not cancer.
i’m thinking. is there a ticking clock?
that’s very observant of you. too bad you distracted me. now i’m… thinking i might change my mind.
no there’s not. [he makes a selection.]
people can change.
[smiling slightly] oh fine. then i won’t offer you any.
screwing with you. it needed to be done. after amber died i withdrew tried to change everything hoping i’d sort it out. find some deeper truth. it was a mistake. i should have gone back to normal to here and now because that’s all we can every really count on. things need to get back to normal in your life. and… what could be more normal than me screwing with you and you figuring it out?
we’re discussing a case.
[offering the scrip] nighty night.
chase doesn’t want some big raucous party.
the main reason my third wife and i eloped was to avoid house’s bachelor party. [long pause] have you seen caligula?
i took an oath to do no harm.
[who has been studying the films through all this] the wall of the fourth ventricle changed. it isn’t bowed in the older scan.
you’d need to do a brain biopsy to confirm. [house takes the scans] uh i’m not going to the bachelor party. every time i go to one of your parties i end up embarrassing myself in some new and unexpected way.
i’m not going.
because i know what the word “my” means.
it was nice.
you didn’t do it to solve the case. you didn’t do it to save his live. you… did it to make his life better. it was a caring act — which you did in a way that was immoral and illegal but… baby steps.
and you’re okay with that?
house!
[waves house over with his patented two-finger gesture] this is my apartment. you can’t do this.
where’s my furniture?
karamel?
uh… we… we got divorced.
how’s your cat?
oh.
oh…
okay.
[to foreman] you’re okay with this?
you guys are great together. trust is everything. i gotta get some air. keep it real. [as he makes his way to the door it becomes apparent that in addition to his jacket wilson is no longer wearing his pants.]
mr. pietramala you have kidney cancer.
the door was closed for a reason.
house…
i’m… i’ll be right back. [he follows house into the hall. house closes the office door.]
you can’t treat patients.
do you have any other neurological symptoms?
aphasia?
memory loss?
irritability?
[at the same time] you shouldn’t be practicing. at least…
[looking behind himself] who were you talking to?
your mind made a choice. it means something.
yeah. [he goes back into his office.]
what if it’s not sleep apnea? trauma from your motorcycle accident? vicodin abuse? you need to be admitted.
did it work?
no.
it is pretty radical.
somewhere between regular and you.
schizophrenia usually manifests younger.
i do have a practice.
are you sure?
i’m sorry.
you didn’t do anything wrong. you prescribed antibiotics. any other doctor would have done the exact same thing.
guilt as a symptom?
apologies aren’t supposed to make you feel better. they’re supposed to make the other person feel better.
fine. you want to do an lp to confirm or is guilt enough to start filling prescriptions.
metoprolol can correct irregular heart…
are you sure?
her?
your subconscious picked my dead girlfriend?
it raises questions.
it’s on the upper end of you radical. do you have any alternative?
then you’re as safe as you can be.
yeah. it’s a big shock. you don’t have ms. but while i had your blood sample i checked your vicodin levels. way too high.
house if you’re on anti-psych meds you’re not going to be able to practice.
you’d prefer electroshock therapy to rehab?
you’re rationalizing.
i know that you’re afraid of the pain but electoshock?
heart attack stroke seizure death or worse.
you live but you damage the only thing you care about. your rational mind. [house lets this sink in then nods] i’ll make some calls.
stop having ideas.
yes. that’s marginally less dangerous than ect. puts you in a coma could cause…
if you had psychosis which you don’t.
yeah except the “i see dead people” thing.
vicodin addiction is still more likely.
house i’ll be up in five minutes. then we can talk about how you’d rather be in a coma than in rehab.
why?
i need glucose in here!
you could have died. [house pushes the curtain between cubicles aside and looks in.]
are you sure? [picks up house’s jeans]
this was not the next rational step.
any other neurological deficit?
is she really gone?
i know a nice facility outside philly. i went to undergrad with one of the directors.
they said three. they have laundry.
he’s unavailable.
he’s off the case. [he closes the phone.]
yeah.
i’d say you’re unaware of what you’re feeling at this moment.
you want it to work this time.
house it’s your only option.
you don’t give up.
wow. [pause] wow. one for each.
how’s the pain?
yeah. i get it. you’re a stud. this is serious house.
the other wow. you were sober. she was sober?
wow. this is fantastic. how are you gonna screw it up?
ha.
well either she’s actually in love with you and scared or she realized last night was a gigantic mistake. you were needy and vulnerable. she was maternal.
no i’m saying whatever’s going on you… need to talk to her.
you didn’t talk to her did you?
so it’s either love or possibly rage.
i have no plans to talk to her.
you are making a mistake.
and clearly thermal imaging is the way. this isn’t a case. you’re not looking for a diagnosis. if this matters at all to you please for once in your life be an adult.
i know for them to approve this price they’ll need statistical documentation. what? why are you looking at me?
nope.
there’s nothing to talk about.
i think you’re using your relationship with cuddy as a replacement for drugs. you should be in more pain so soon into detoxing but your body’s full of romantic endorphins. and on top of that you create this distraction of looking for proof.
cuddy is not a vicodin substitute.
you have to wait for her to be ready.
you’ve made two major changes in your life. not a time anyone’s judgment is at its best.
i’m sure it’s convoluted wrong and stupid.
no.
oxytocin. the chemical involved in emotional bonding.
no. for you to know her levels were elevated you’d need a baseline to compare them with.
love inspires us to greatness.
and then what happens? she admits everything and falls into your arms?
great.
you’re committing yourself to something. to someone. i mean it’s childish in a way but ultimately great. assuming… are you absolutely sure you want this to succeed?
i’ll go get my decoder ring. [he leaves]
oh for… [turns on microphone] what do you think your right brain wants?
it’s mute. it can’t communicate with you. maybe you should try communicating with it.
you’re the dominant half. you make all the decisions. the right side has no control over anything. it must be… frustrating.
when you decide to go and get groceries what do you do?
your right brain has no idea why you’re suddenly getting up and putting on your jacket. it just gets dragged along. next time try saying it out loud.
i’m an oncologist.
you never answered my question.
thank god. but my question was do you really want cuddy or is this just another challenge?
hey i’m actually for this. i think this is great. but if you’re serious and you don’t treat it seriously then you will get hurt. and if you don’t accept that then accept that she will get hurt.
if you’re standing there when she looks up here —
why is it always reasonable in houseland to take an emotional problem and sidestep it by turning it into a mechanical problem?
if the left brain is the interpreter of reality and the one that tells us the story of who we are then what is your story? do you wanna be the man with the answers or do you wanna be the man with cuddy?
you make her angry.
i’m as surprised as you but i think i’m serious. communication can’t start unless you both —
no you haven’t. come on! poo? strippers? it’s routine stuff. you’ve been pulling your punches. you’re scared. you should be. [house thinks then stands up.] now go terrorize her.
