twenty-six-year-old female gas main exploded under her building she was pulled out of the rubble after six hours.
[continuing when he's done] two surgeries for multiple fractures and burns.
and the fever? she's the only collapse victim whose body temperature
already have. the fever's holding at a hundred-and-four. fluctuating consciousness.
[smilingly holds up a file of r<e9>sum<e9>s] so hire a team.
have you even interviewed anybody?
you've spent the last two weeks doing absolutely nothing. concert is over.
[threatening] take the case or you will spend the next month helping the collapse team change bandages.
done.
if he solves the case we cure the girl.
he's not gonna solve the case. not that fast.
[insisting] because he needs a team! and this'll prove to him
house shut up! i am very sorry how dr. house handled this. it is completely unforgivable.
[uneasy] except if he's right.
dialysis will filter her blood.
save her life.
[gently] hi. i'm dr. cuddy. if you can hear what i'm saying blink once.
you can't talk right now. you have a tube down your throat. and try not to move your head. you've been in a terrible accident. but it looks like you will have no permanent injuries. you've had a bad fever but it's gone now.
this is very important. i need you to blink one for yes twice for no. were you seeing a psychiatrist?
were you on mao inhibitors? the antidepressant.
megan are you all right?
heart is beating too fast. [to an approaching nurse] get the family out of here.
charging to two hundred.
clear!
we shocked her back into sinus rhythm but she's still tachycardic.
i was gonna leave you alone if you won the bet. [smiling] but you lost.
she confirmed them by winking. maybe there was a cute guy across the room.
two unrelated symptoms just a coincidence. or you're grasping at straws to avoid admitting you can't do this on your own.
it could be anything. endocarditis.
[thinking] um
well let's just say your antidepressant theory does explain the fever. what about the heart? and don't say a building fell on her.
shut up.
you'd think she'd get crush syndrome after she was crushed not two days later.
she'd have a baggy heart. [tosses him the marker] echo it to confirm.
[softly to him] tone it down or i will hit you.
[whispers to him] liver enzymes can also be elevated from musculoskeletal trauma. they'd be there whether she had a drinking problem or not.
fever's down. sweating has abated. heart's working fine. guess house was right. [hates saying it but] again.
it is good news.
[looks at megan quietly] no sorry.
no. i think she's screaming.
[reacts with a start] uh-huh. where did you come from?
yes i was also there when you were proven wrong. she'd been silently screaming for two hours.
amylase and lipase are through the roof. she has pancreatitis.
okay.
nope.
nope.
nope.
which is why i'm not answering it.
[interjecting] not interested.
i'm not interested in arguing because i'm not interested in enabling you. you need someone to bounce ideas off of. you need a team.
don't follow me.
you're wrong.
[ignoring the jibe] are you really just gonna treat the pancreatitis?
i don't want her to die because you're stubborn.
if you're right then this guy who's not an ass who's not a workaholic who's not a sociopath has somehow missed both her depression and severe alcoholism.
[insistent] why would she lie?
[deadpan] okay alcoholism you don't wanna advertise. but [notices house's shocked expression]
if you're right there'd be an abnormality on the pancreas. at least do an mri to confirm.
internal bleeding.
why are you here?
you're here because i'm here. [confidently] i am done enabling you.
[without a pause] the alcohol didn't cause the pancreatitis the internal bleeding did. the question is what caused the internal bleeding? i hate myself.
four days ago.
it's bleeding from five different sites. you think they synchronized their watches?
fever heart and bleeding. three problems three completely different explanations. she must be the unluckiest woman in the world.
[deadpan] yes she looks perfectly healthy. this much bleeding is a symptom of something more. and you need a team because you're wrong and you're gonna kill this woman.
[over intercom] stop enabling him!
you put her on tamoxifen? an anti-cancer drug?
does it also block breathing and kidney function? she's crashing.
which patient is that?
house's patient.
didn't you get my memo?
[under her breath realizing] both. [almost rhetorical] and the second memo said to ignore the first memo?
[interrupts] 'course you did.
what'd you find?
not exactly. the growths are eosinophilic granulomas. [hanging up an iv bag] they are usually from allergic reactions. i'm putting her on steroids.
we don't know. unfortunately the only drug she's had enough of to have this kind of reaction is cephalosporin.
it would seem so.
how'd you know it was me?
[entering] you were wrong.
[interrupts] they had a good relationship.
and you were wrong about needing a team. she almost died.
you were content with your people are idiots theory. but cameron would never have accepted that this guy knew nothing about the love of his life. and as soon as you claimed it was multiple conditions foreman would have done anything to prove you wrong. and then chase would have done anything to prove you right. any one of them would have solved this days ago. hire a team. i don't care how you do it. just do it.
house? [they share looks.]
did you forget how to count to three?
actually that's exactly what it means.
there's forty people in there.
this is stupid you can't manage that many people you're just going to keep weeding them out arbitrarily.
[to house.] who's that? [everyone stares at her.] [to 39 24 and 10.] who is she?
who is she?
she's stable. who is she?
that she is on the run from an international crime syndicate.
house may be your boss but i'm house's boss. you want to work here i better be okay with it.
you're a virus house now instead of one liability i've got 20.
from now on everything you do gets charted. with pen on paper in a binder that says princeton plainsboro teaching hospital on the cover.
if you want to run something through the labs i get a copy. if you do scans i get a copy. if you think about doing scans i get a copy.
i checked the tests you ordered.
you measured the density of her teeth.
so you suspected hypercalcaemia from her complete lack of broken bones. is that why you also ran three tox screens?
foreman is running the diagnostic department at new york mercy. [house looks surprised and confused cuddy leans in and sniffs.] have you been drinking?
you bumped a splenectomy for a boob job?
you don't explain this i'll cancel the surgery.
think i just told you why i...
with you so far.
not a good one.
why are you here?
teams?
you have team-s?
you can't make a competition out of patient care.
(holds up a finger) not until after the yelling. (points the finger at house) what's wrong with him?
you wouldn't be doing this unless you already knew.
if you know you are obligated to treat...
(leaning closer) i'm getting closer and closer to knowing the answer.(beat) what would happen if i shut down this game?
you do know what's wrong with him right?
you want to remove his eye?
you booked the or.
you can't beat me in a foot race.
the home is the right eye. i get it. do a biopsy.
you're not doing a biopsy. you ordered an orbital exenteration.
how advanced is the pneumonia?
if you hadn't treated this patient as a game he wouldn't be dead.
i'm supposed to show you sympathy? he died... while his attending was lying on a hospital bed because he stuck a knife in a wall socket.
you employed her. you're responsible.
sexual harassment claims go through hr. stress-related leaves through worker's comp and any accusations of criminal activities go directly to the princeton plainsboro police department.
[laughing] you're not going to score any points with house by kissing my ass.
my advice to you is to do whatever house wants you to do tonight. and then tomorrow night you can come back and i will give you extra clinic duty.
i don't know what house wants you to do and i don't want to know. but if you really have a problem with it quit now. it's only gonna get worse.
the doctor's lounge is covered in mud.
there were pickaxes. either you had them dig up a body or you're building a railroad.
that's your defense? we just dismembered him?
[really intrigued] you get the results yet?
yes. let me know when you hear anything. [stands] and get that mess in the shower area cleaned up.
how many of them agreed to dig up a grave?
it doesn't make any sense.
if you weren't interested you wouldn't be here.
no you didn't. you always think there's an agenda.
that's why you're good. you need a job.
and i need someone that understands house.
i need someone that can control house.
i'll cut the salary of everyone else on the team fifteen percent give it to you. that's more than you'll get anywhere else.
you're the one person on the team that he always respected.
it's my decision not his.
glad to hear it.
it's not unreasonable.
i will give you... none of those. [smiles] you can come back at your original salary.
you haven't rethought anything. you've just been blackballed. you're house lite now. the only administrator that will touch you is the one who hired house classic. [almost enjoying this] good news is she'll pretend she's not doing you a favor.
i just hired him.
when your extended job interview slash reality tv show killed a patient you lost your veto power. everybody this is dr. foreman he will...
it's still dr. house's department. he decides who stays who goes...
but dr. foreman will be my eyes and ears. you do nothing without his knowledge. [starts to leave.]
your team foreman included is dealing with the great mayonnaise panic of 2007. frankly i'm worried it might spread to other continents.
you don't knock?
no. i'm replacing his vicodin stash with laxatives.
why? because he's suddenly going to realise he's no longer 14? either i take his garbage forever or i give him a reason to stop.
i'm not going to fire foreman.
[putting away the pills.] where were you two hours ago?
you want to induce a fever?
you could maim him.
i'm not letting you do it.
no. [house walks away.]
foreman's not going anywhere.
hi i'm the dean of medicine.
i can fire him. i can fire him now. i can fire him tomorrow. i don't even need a reason.
he's a good doctor. that's all. i respect his expertise and i...
well that could have been either of us.
that still could have been either of us. [looks at house.]
seriously... [house starts celebrating.] i have always thought my breasts were one of my best features.
where's house? he's blown off four hours of clinic.
he's gonna make up twice his skipped hours in the clinic.
and for protecting him you're gonna make up twice that.
because house never learns. you might.
where have you been? and don't say the cia.
either you're gonna have to get someone from the cia to call and confirm your story or [smiling] you're doing eight clinic hours and wilson is doing sixteen.
for your honesty i will forgive _your_ hours.
[obviously didn't believe him] no!
the only thing less likely than your helping the cia is your helping some rich guy on long island. you're doing your hours and wilson's.
who doesn't?
a teen-aged boy with a cranio-facial deformity was about to undergo a reconstructive procedure when he had an unexplained cardiac arrest.
(whispers) good?
(smugly) darnell will be trailing you throughout the case.
you think i like the cameras? (stalks across the room) you think i want the whole world watching you check out my ass and question my wardrobe?
(behind her desk) a little part of me...
(persevering) ...thought that maybe you would see what great pr this could be for the hospital and not make me force you to act like a human being.
it's cold in here.
that production company is covering all the medical costs for this kid. so either you let them continue filming... or the kid goes home with the same face.
the or?
yes. (long beat) dr. house frequently conducts differential diagnosis in a variety of places. (shoveling fast furious) he feels that a... change in venue often leads to a change in thinking processes.
i have to go take care of something else.
house!
you have a minute? .to redo some valves?
the father refused steroids until we're sure about the diagnosis.
(to taub) what you did was over the line. (indicates the door) get out.
but don't go anywhere. you're not fired. (beat) yet.
no-one is firing anyone in the middle of this case. not while those cameras are here and not while taub is the only person that his father trusts.
where are you going?
that's one option.(beat) or you can do a ct scan of the kid's head. if there's no mid-line shift we know taub's wrong and you get your consent to give the kid steroids.
what are you two doing here?
taub. i don't see it. stay away from the family. (to house) house start steroids and stay away from his family.
well it's nice of them to send us an early copy.
it's difficult not to be moved.
where you going? kittens to get out of trees? deaf kids to read to?
dr taub are you okay?
uh okay. [hands the file to amber and grabs another one off the pile. they both leave taub to clean himself up]
because it's very important to actually do it well.
i'll get it. [bends down to pick up the vicodin and house checks out her ass.]
of course i'm...
no.
i am not. [looks down away from house as she hands house his pills.]
you're alone.
who are you keeping? you owed me a decision ten days ago.
i want two names by friday.
yes. you need more tests. 's only been two months. who knows how they'll react to freak weather patterns?
two names by friday or the pay overruns come out of your salary.
[meaning business] and i'll move your parking space to the e lot.
get control of your patient. strap him to the bed if you have to.
[firm] you can have two.
you don't want four. you don't want three. but if i say three you get to keep playing your game.
[genuinely surprised] are you asking my opinion?
[uncertainly] you never want my advice. you spend your life trying to avoid my advice.
[smiles] am i blushing?
taub and kutner. taub will stand up to you. you won't like him but you'll respect him. kutner shares your philosophy of medicine. god knows i don't need two of you but he will actually help you.
you want to drill into a skull of a patient who almost died on the operating table yesterday?
[re: the fellows] why are they here?
you could have just told me.
i assume he's been vaccinated.
that's clever.
you're not doing a biopsy without neurological symptoms.
[slowly and firmly] i need a neurological
if you can induce a seizure you can have your biopsy.
what the hell did you do?
because i knew you wouldn't.
i can't let you hire two men.
you've already got foreman.
[conceding] hire a woman too.
you can have the one that gives a crap about people.
right. hire thirteen.
this was your plan all along.
well at least the games are over.
you owe me 50 bucks.
it's for the nurses' holiday bonus. i know you got the memo.
you already fired the ones you hired?
something's gotta be done.
why do i even give you an office? new case. psych department asked for you personally.
you're a crazy person. patient's a psychiatrist.
he seems fine with it. your patient is an adjunct faculty member here but currently... [house whacks the side of the tv.] the budget committee voted to charge for cable in the patient rooms.
talk to carlson in derm he runs the budget committee... after you look at this. [hands him the file.]
the patient is trapped at the south pole. [house takes the file and cuddy leaves.]
how's your patient?
i had to fire cameron.
65-year-old man came into the er with a hip fracture. cameron gave him demerol. the guy was on an maoi put him into a hypertensive crisis.
taub caught the error in time. if she'd just admitted the mistake maybe i could've just suspended her. but... she's packing up if you want to say good-bye.
that's it?
i assure you that dr. house is our best...
i have reviewed the chart. someone on your team must have pointed out that cryoglobulinemia also fits the symptoms.
i'm starting her on indomethacin for cryoglobulinemia.
so alcoholics that successfully go through treatment don't exist.
if you're dissatisfied with your life changing it is a symptom of mental health.
i get why that concept is strange to you...
it's definitely not cryoglobulinemia.
[deadpan] good morning.
his people are sheep-herders and amber's are... cattlemen?
wish i could help but as administrator there are some people in accounting i'm scheduled to sleep with first.
i get that sleep with is your way of saying i should talk to him?
[smiling] you're not worried this relationship will fail. you're worried it'll succeed. that wilson will no longer be at your beck and call 24/7. that your best friend will change.
[really enjoying this] and it bugs you that he wishes he could! [comforting] you'll never lose your friend house. you're the long-distance runner of neediness.
are you sure she doesn't wanna just take you back to her lair hang you upside down and deposit her eggs in you?
you two are really that serious?
[suggests] ... evil?
how many people have looked at you trustingly while you gave them a fatal prognosis? but you knew it was kinder to tell them the truth. amber compulsively looks out
sorry.
[looks at house and then gets up and takes a file out of the cupboard. sits back down and starts reading it to house.] your treatment of patients is reprehensible. [house rolls his eyes.]
[snaps at him] i'm busy. we have a nurses' strike! [wilson backs off cuddy goes back to reading the review.] your management of employees borders on abuse.
you are overtly contemptuous of hospital hierarchy.
your attitude towards supervisory personnel is disrespectful and a disturbingly large proportion of your comments are racist or sexist.
sign this. [hands file to house.]
i will give you a ruling if you do the reviews on your team. [kutner shuts the door behind him and takes one of wilson's chips.]
[to amber.] what'd you offer him?
[to house.] wednesday's till 11:00 and alternate weekends.
[opening it.] reviews?
the word was contemptuous. [reads over the first review.] well phrased thoughtful. [flips to next page.] identically phrased. [keeps flicking through.] these are all the same.
[puts the file down.] well it's more than i expected.
[picks it up again and finds the extra one starts to read it.] your treatment of patients is non-existent because you're not a doctor you're an administrator.
[continues reading.] your management of employees is well let's face it they're outside carrying signs. [stops reading and puts it down.] the strike ended the nurses have been back for two shifts already.
[smiles.] i got a call from amber today. says there's been a violation of your contract. you've been seeing wilson on her time.
yes you are. you're both losing fingers.
makes sense. i actually wasn't expecting you until next month...
yeah. i'm familiar with <U+0096>
i have no idea. shall we get started?
the accreditation board is here to protect us and our patients. so in dealing with the on-site inspector please behave as though it wasn't also an enormous pain in the ass. [the doctors start leaving] chase foreman cameron <U+0096> up here please. why is house driving a limo.
wrong. until this inspection is over you're back on house watch. [points to foreman then cameron] current case past cases.
i was just <U+0096> asking for your help. [chase is out the door before she finishes. to cameron] the last time i checked the er you had the best-kept charts in the building. the last time i checked the fourth floor janitor's closet i found house's charts. he hasn't filed anything since you left. now house may not care whether this hospital's accreditation gets downgraded but the people who sign my paychecks do. so i repeat current past.
did he tell you about the limo?
what did house do?
what's this the av club?
yeah excellent job so far. house outside.
you have an obsession with an actor or the character he plays. i feel for you. you need to work it out. but i need you to do it when the hospital's accreditation and my job are not on the line.
no i want you to cure him without committing any more felonies.
fifty-one weeks out of the year i let you run around like a monkey in a banana factory. all i'm asking is that you tone it for a few days.
we're not bargaining.
me keeping my job is good for you.
why is toxin a better idea?
you're not going to cut your own throat.
what are you doing here?
you keep food in the morgue?
[holding up a food container with someone's name on it] that's cause it's everyone else's food.
[throwing everything in a covered trash can] the accreditation board will light us on fire for this.
you're going to get me fired over a sandwich?
no i won't.
sweet sauce. [conway stares]
an ironic nickname. wow. it is almost two. aren't you supposed to be
100 milligrams of methylprednisilone is an overdose.
the team hasn't finished the test for allergy. his symptoms don't <U+0096>
then confirm it. get a blood test.
protocol has saved your patient from having his thyroid destroyed and his blood drained.
my job's on the line. you're job is on the line.
if he dies let me know. so i can pack my things.
tests are negative. patient's negative for all floral allergies. [he follows her into the hall where she rings for an elevator] i'm gonna restart the antibiotics if he's still alive.
ampicillin 2 grams iv.
the test was negative. [she picks up the chart as house enters the room]
he was right.
the patient's alive.
and the other 5%?
hello?
$200000 fine.
good night house.
can't this wait until <U+0096>
and you got this from bubbles?
and tonic water is loaded with quinine. huh. nice job.
i'm taking back the tv.
that wasn't the deal.
good night house.
good night house.
he's fine. he doesn't even have meningitis just like everybody else we've had to give meningitis shots to. [to emo guy.] you can go.
you're fine. a nurse will sign you out.
[sighs.] tilt your head back.
[to house] you need to rest. i'm admitting you.
it's a longitudinal fracture of the temporal bone.
this isn't just a boo-boo.
maybe it's because you have a cracked skull and you're not yourself. go home. go to sleep. [house nods.]
i didn't know you rode the bus.
[gets up and walks over to house.] then i guess this isn't a memory. it's a fantasy.
you're convinced your patient is dying and you want to waste your time with a sex fantasy?
well i'm not here to indulge that. i'm here to help you figure out what symptom you saw. your patient was driving the bus so all you could see <U+0096>
your patient was driving the bus so all you could see was him sitting down. most likely facing forward.
could indicate aortic insufficiency.
or syphilis. [takes off her skirt. she is now just wearing her white bra and underwear - which are glowing under the black light - and her black stiletto's as she swings around the pole to face house again.]
ehlers-danlos?
it's not fatal in adults. [she turns around. with her back to house she unclips her bra.]
i'm distracting you. [she stops dancing and sits down beside house. she's wearing a suit again.]
you'd rather be diagnosing.
and your own subconscious ignored you. because you'd rather fantasize about finding symptoms. how screwed up is that?
help him up.
house!
i asked him back in.
you can tell us what that means while we're rolling him to the or.
house!
[yelling through the glass.] i didn't bring you back here so you could stage a coup! [kutner tries to open the door but it doesn't budge. thirteen goes to remove the crutch.]
[knocks on the glass.] dr. hadley open the door. (transcribers note: we have a name! from here on out i will be referring to thirteen as hadley.)
i can't risk you stabbing him in the heart looking for an unconfirmed air bubble.
[bangs on the glass again.] dr. hadley!
dr. hadley!
open that door. [hadley stabs his heart just as they finally manage to get the door open.]
get him to the or.
i'll be on the couch. with a shotgun in my lap.
making sure you don't try and make a limp for the border. get some sleep. [turns out the light.]
go away.
so the bus driver with the air bubble was just a coincidence?
you're not leaving. [house walks over to the closet and pulls out a blood pressure arm band and puts it around his arm and starts pumping.]
elevated heart rate bp... which is exactly why you need to stop. [house grabs her hand and sticks it on his neck so she can check his heart rate.]
why does this matter so much?
127.
i'm not going to call in crash victims because you've gone insane.
is that vicodin?
are you crazy? alzheimer's drugs will make your brain go into overdrive.
house this isn't worth <U+0096>
he's coming out of it.
you idiot! your heart stopped.
[simply] no.
you need to rest. i have yet to hear about any study linking electricity and rest.
my mistake drilling a hole and shooting lightning bolts into an already-cracked skull is very restful it's not fatal at all.
brain activity spiked.
[softly rebuking] shut up.
we're gonna restart her heart.
[vo] brain involvement gives us a new symptom.
it's where the disease was going. we needed to know that.
house wanted to warm her up. you just guilted him into changing his mind.
heart liver rash and now her brain.
[softly] he's the attending. you're the family. go spend more time with the patient.
technically she's still alive. could probably survive a few more hours on bypass. we could wean her off anesthesia wake her up give you a chance to...
wake amber up. see her again. tell her what she means to you.
you are waking her up so that you can both say good-bye to each other. she would want it.
[hands taub a clipboard] i think he's stable.
hey i'm here. blink if you can hear me.
no shh don't try to talk. just rest.
