how does an inmate on death row get his hands on heroin?
i left the seminary.
i'm against the death penalty in principle. in practice however watching a murderer die causes me a lot less grief than annoying my boss. [the three are stopped by guards who pat them down before they can go to see clarence.]
he was just a little dehydrated and out of his mind. we upped his saline drip he's fine now.
his bi-carb is low.
he already tested negative.
is that how you put yourself through med school?
mudpiles.
methanol uremia diabetes
nearly a quarter of the prison population is infected with tb.
i assume you have a reason beyond wanting to make me completely miserable?
[on cell] this is chase.
i haven't spoken to any inmates.
i've decided clarence's life isn't worth risking mine for.
i'm searching both clarence's cells. i figure if he's on something it's stashed somewhere.
yeah that'd be a shame. he could have shoved it anywhere there's envelopes stacked to the ceiling bottles of copier toner boxes of rubber bands [he goes on but house has heard enough]
have you done a ct?
what if it wasn't suicide? what if it was an escape plan? drink enough methanol to get transferred to a hospital try to escape from here?
no lesions no aneurysms. ironically the mind of a killer looks completely normal.
insecure. what are you asking?
this guy's really getting to you isn't he?
prison guard.
adrenaline <U+0096>
even explains how he had the strength to rip the rail off his bed. [house enters the elevator.]
still don't see anything.
if it was me i'd just stay home and watch tv or something. not lie here under a microscope.
genetic component.
what about graft vs. host disease from the bone marrow transplant? infection travels to her brain and she has hallucinations.
let's lay you down and i'll attach this thingamajiggy.
oh a pro. i don't have to explain anything. i like it. [he's prepping her and finds her central line]
yeah. it doesn't hurt or anything does it?
don't think i've ever heard anyone say they like their central line before. alright can i interest you in a walk in the park? [he turns on the wall monitor]
okay. [he changes the image to a field of butterflies]
not today. we're looking for an infection but i get your point. you comfortable?
alright let's get this over with.
but the lungs could lead us somewhere that is.
primary pulmonary hypertension.
you ever had this test before? [andie shakes her head]
this goes all the way up the vein by your hip into your lung. if i find something up there blocking anything i pull it out. simple.
oh you have had this test before.
there's time yet for that.
uh huh.
you will walk out of here alright and you will kiss a boy. there you go. a smile.
no.
i'm i'm i'm sorry i can't.
listen you're nine years old i'm thirty.
this isn't your last chance for that.
pulmonary angiogram of andie's lungs was clean. arterial blood gasses and a ct scan were also normal. her heart and lungs are fine.
there's no way.
no she hasn't had sex she's nine!
she's hiding it pretty well if there's any of that going on.
she hasn't had sex.
she told me she'd never kissed a boy.
she asked me to kiss her.
but she's not a regular nine year old. she's got terminal cancer.
she wanted one kiss before she dies. if she's never kissed a boy it's a fair bet she's never had sex.
it wasn't sick. [foreman and cameron freak out quietly] it was one kiss for a dying girl. one small one small kiss before she dies. thank you. thanks.
that's a mitral heart valve.
they tend to keep quiet on account of them not having any mouths.
i don't hear anything weird.
she's had one hallucination. why are we operating on her? why are we risking her life?
i'm not really sure i should be spending more time
dr. murphy.
doctor.
she's got a bleed in her eye.
a clot could create pressure behind the eye cause the bleed.
she's gone through more than most people do in a lifetime.
he gets that sometimes.
she's shivering.
[handing her tickets to the american museum of natural history] in case you want to see real butterflies. [they hug and she kisses him on the cheek]
this might sting a little bit. the medicine will thin the blood and help it to circulate.
those pretty nasty scars there.
depends how long it takes us to figure out what's going on.
i'm sure dr. cuddy won't fire you.
i promise we'll let you out of here as soon as we're able to
no..
no if this is a clotting problem it could be very serious. all right?
turn your hand over. i need to see your hand.
we're got a third finger turning dark.
what's up?
take it easy take it easy.
protein c's side effects we were worried about? they happened.
his brain. it's causing right side paralysis. i've stopped the treatment. and called a neurosurgeon.
pneumonia doesn't hit that fast.
wait wait wait. cuddy's house?
she's scarier than you are.
you're on.
there's no way you deduced where that key was.
you gave yourself twenty seconds then put money on it.
you're kidding.
you two are just too nasty to each other not to have beennasty.
he has a low titer for chlamydia. antibodies maybe?
but the titer points to
no his antigen is negative.
dic wouldn't cause a fever this high.
two hours ago it was one-oh-three. with acetaminophen.
his middle finger is dusky.
no i mean the other hand. the one we haven't chopped off yet.
you're thinking psittacosis? alfredo doesn't have any pet parrots.
my dad not me.
why don't we focus on getting you better right now? [chase's beeper goes off.]
sorry we've got an emergency. [chase and foreman run off.]
what about something metabolic?
what about his heart?
abnormal heart rhythm. white form showed p-r variability.
causing him to pass out.
[waving the paper] the abnormal was real
the guy's a selfish jerk why would you <U+0096>
no i haven't i'm just giving my opinion. this kind of altruism doesn't just naturally <U+0096>
i'm shocked. i'm shocked when patients don't ask you out.
boy he moves fast.
well do you like him?
i take it you said no.
he's not house. there's nothing there. [indeed the mri is spotless. however sebastian's arm does have a spot]
newsweek's calling you!
his autonomic nervous system?
so what else could be eating his nerves?
apparently not.
yeah.
high insulin levels in his blood.
okay very high insulin levels in his blood.
an abnormal growth of the insulin-secreting glands of his pancreas?
i'm there.
i already gave him 1 amp.
we've got to reverse this.
shocks?
bad night at poker or great night with a hooker?
house wants more information not the same information done over again.
wilson already ruled out [interrupted]
it doesn't matter if she believes him or not. it's already in the chart. we're supposed to find out what's missing.
nice bike!
not if you had the stool sample which was negative for botulinism.
and his blood and csf cultures are all negative
probably. don't know why he'd lie about that.
my bet's he was born the way he is. probably tormented his parents not the other way around
depends on what the original infection was. [to carnell] all right you're done. you need to lay flat after a lumbar puncture for about an hour.
you're done
he's your dad he's going to be around
he went to jamaica with his friends.
pesticides.
well you wouldn't necessarily have to smoke to get pesticide poisoning. he could have eaten fruit that had been sprayed or been exposed to his skin on a hike.
so he just happened to catch a bug while he was here? that's all this is?
he just started again.
it stopped when he was getting better.
and to stop and start for no apparent reason.
umm... got to do my laundry.
i'm curious about crocs but i don't stick my head in their mouths
kaposi's sarcoma could look like diaper rash.
it's rigid! [cgi of carnell's intestines] he's bleeding into his abdomen.
the infection caused a perforation in his sigmoid colon. it's repairable.
it might not have caused nerve damage but it definitely destroyed his immune system.
they're all right.
looks pretty good down here.
his heart rate's falling he's haemorrhaging.
well the surgeon has removed the tumour without damaging the spinal cord but the infection has caused another intestinal perforation. we stopped the bleeding but his white count keeps falling.
i'm sorry. the reality is no matter what we give him it's unlikely he's going to be able to fight off the infections.
is the symptom death?
supplements he's been taking contain yojimbo which can cause nerve paralysis
mickey mantle was an alcoholic
we take drugs to help us fall asleep stay awake--
really? ever been to oh i don't know med school?
you were right.
there is a bubble in his lung. we should do a swan-ganz catheterisation.
if his acid reflux isn't worse than we thought yeah
shouldn't be a problem
if i can just find the little bugger should be able to suck it out
you're under mild sedation for the test it'll wear off [there's a blip on the screen] there it is
ah got it.
not yet i want to monitor him for a couple of hours make sure he's ok. give him time to sign a picture for me maybe even a jersey?
er it doesn't have to be that personal.
still trying to unload the barbara walter spit cup.
seriously anything's fine.
you all right? jeff! can you swallow?
muscle fatigue in his neck and jaw. he's obviously got something worse than an air embolus.
because... you don't drool from your lungs?
the embolectomy was clean. his legs were tired too. i thought it was from the sedation but if not means he's got something systemic.
lupus or polymyocitis. it explains the progressive muscle weakness
the most painful place to cut into.
i assume that's caffeine-free. wouldn't want to be artificially boosting your performance.
all about the rules eh?
huh.
and als. and muscular dystrophy.
so by your rationale house shouldn't use a cane he should just drag his bum leg around as god intended?
and who decides what's normal? what if we find a drug that makes people live 20 years longer? should we ban that because it's not normal?
maybe his count is raised; maybe what's normal for us is out of whack for him.
muscle weakness exhaustion? he could have encephalitis.
that i screwed up the embolectomy.
i didn't screw up--
there's no way prca could manifest so suddenly.
lambert-eaton.
so we run an electromyography test.
his neck?
fifty bucks says we find something.
don't have a clue. we on?
we found a thymoma.
blood transfusions.
nope stool sample was negative.
sorry mate [injecting something into the iv bag] hands full.
does anyone actually fall for that line?
yeah she's got some scheduled for february. last you heard? your father?
dads can be real sweethearts.
his lungs are too scarred to tell which infection triggered the immune reconstitution.
toxo cmv and pcp.
i closed the tear.
could be kaposi's syndrome.
i would have seen them when i repaired the tear in his lung. wegener's granulomatosis?
maybe you should go home take the rest of the day. [he puts a hand on her shoulder she shrugs it off.]
how about a drink after work? take your mind off what happened. [silence.] cameron?
[searching the wardrobe.] there's like zero chance of you contracting the virus.
what did the infection control guy tell you?
it's not like they're going to find anything right?
[finds something.] check this out.
kalvin's a photographer. the broken bulbs were props. glass is from 1930's fluorescent.
pre-world war ii fluorescent bulbs contained large amounts of beryllium. beryllium dust inflames the lungs they get rigid patient can't breathe. [house gives him a questioning look.] my father co-authored a paper on acute berylliosis.
i can handle it.
his lung tissue is negative.
glad you changed your mind about that drink.
you should get changed there's this new place on campus that looks [cameron pushes him up against the wall and kisses him. chase looks very confused but kisses her back.] are you high?
i thought you disposed of the drugs.
uhh slow down your pupils are dilated! you're not [she yanks his shirt off.]
he didn't kill her. our bodies aren't donor farms for our parents.
i'm not an idiot.
ativan. it'll help settle you down. [he hands her some pills which she takes.]
not coming off meth helps. last night probably shouldn't happen again.
when two people have had sex unless it sucks if they can do it again they're gonna do it again. and that's when things get complicated. and it didn't suck. [chase walks out.]
they rule on me it's done right?
then let's get it over with. [he signs the paper.]
no.
all i can tell them is what happened.
patient presented to the clinic--
it's in the file.
kayla presented to the clinic with multiple joint and stomach pain. dr foreman was called in for a neurological consult.
there was some uveitis.
her iris - the color part of her eye - was inflamed.
worst case blindness [he's pouring glasses of water for himself and for stacy.] but there was an upside. it was weird enough to get house interested.
vasculitis with stomach pain so behcet's.
any pain? [kayla nods.] is it bad? [she looks like she's shaking her head but seems unsure.] this will go a little easier if you talk to me.
when i was 12 had my tonsils out. got to skip school lots of ice cream; made me want to be a doctor.
[checks her file.] she died of dts? your mom? [kayla nods.] bottles stashed around the house? mood swings? that whole deal?
my mom. dad left mom crawled inside a bottle. made for a great yr 12 of high school.
no.
no it's just
she had some ulceration.
i gave her some prednisone an antacid and i ran a pathergy test on her arm; takes 24 hours to confirm. told her any doctor could check it out.
nope. she just showed up.
[on the phone.] uh huh.
[putting down the phone he looks happy and hyped up.] hi. all right let's take a look. [kayla pulls up her sleeve to reveal a pustule.] okay those little pustules mean it's positive. talk to nurse previn; get an appointment with dr. broston in rheumatology. behcet's is very treatable. you're going to be fine.
that's what happened.
just gave her the test results.
we didn't even go into an exam room.
i was on the phone.
[turns around looks at her blankly.] hi.
oh. [he distractedly puts down the phone.] oh yeah umm okay. [he looks at her arm.] it's positive. talk to nurse previn; get an appointment with dr. broston in rheumatology. [he starts to walk out.]
[pauses at the door and turns back looking rather fed up. he digs out his pad and pen and writes her a prescription.] behcet's can be stronger than we thought or it could be reflux from the prednisone. this is a stronger antacid. [he starts walking out again.]
[turns around.] yes?
i made one little mistake.
i just figured the stomach pain was the behcet's. any doctor would have thought the same.
the way she hesitated i thought she might have had a doorknob question. [stacy has no idea what that means.] patient comes in says he's got a sniffly nose; you examine him for 10 minutes right? then you're leaving hand on the doorknob and he says oh yeah and my penis has turned green.
no. i didn't. i figured it out later.
[shrugs.] nothing.
i wasn't thinking clearly at first.
i figured it might be blood in her stool which could indicate a bleeding ulcer.
[rushing down the corridor to join them.] talk to me.
push fluids?
[prepares a wire and slips it in through kayla's mouth and into her stomach. we see the camera at the end of the wire move down into her stomach.] i'm in her stomach. there's too much blood i can't see.
[we suddenly see the ulcer on the screen.] no there. bubbling just a bad ulcer. cauterizing.
hold on! okay [sighs.] looks good.
bleeding ulcer. we got it. she was fine 2 hours ago.
it's brown. i cauterized it. it must be something else. [he moves the wire around until they see another bleeding ulcer which looks worse than the first.] there.
get her to an or!
the surgeons were able to suture the perforation. but the contents of the patient's- [stacy looks up at him.] kayla's stomach had spilled into her body. she got septic.
50 over palp at one point. it damaged her liver and kidneys. listen i know this looks bad i obviously got the diagnosis wrong but i did everything by the book. i couldn't have known what was going to happen.
i'm in her stomach. there's too much blood i can't see.
no. there. bubbling just a bad ulcer. okay cauterizing; looks good.
bleeding ulcer we've got it. she was fine 2 hours ago.
it's brown. i cauterized it.
get her to an or!
yeah so i gave her a stronger--
she just came in for a follow-up. the results of the pathergy test.
maybe if she'd said something about taking ibuprofen mentioned the rectal bleeding!
doctors skip all the time! it was a minor mistake; i couldn't have known this was going to happen--
she might die because i had the bad luck to spill your damn vicodin pills!
[rolling up his shirtsleeves.] judging from your question and your demeanour i assume you were visiting with house. been over this i don't know.
good doctors never forget to ask questions? then you've got your answer apparently i'm not a good doctor!
we can put her on a list.
the pain constant?
sharp or dull?
it's bad.
no it's a clot.
a cbc pt and a liver panel. [he calls out over kayla's moans of pain.]
sepsis had lowered her bp so much she got clots in her liver. they blocked the hepatic artery cut off the blood flow. her liver was shocked.
treatable.
it's healing.
dory and nicky.
it didn't matter anyway.
yes.
sam we've talked about this.
wouldn't you?
house took care of that too.
because sam had rushed his tests we were able to get them into surgery that afternoon. dr ayersman performed the live donor transplant. he resected the right lobe hepatic vein and hepatic artery of sam's liver and transplanted it into kayla. the operation was a success. kayla and sam continued to receive routine care. [chase is observing the operation from the observation deck.]
two months later she came by for an exam.
honestly i just wanted to--
let's make a deal. i won't use the word 'honestly' and you'll quit stopping by to see house so you don't take it out on me afterwards how about that? [stacy narrows her eyes.] i wanted to be as far away from kayla as possible but house was rubbing my nose in it.
how are the girls?
oh yeah? [measures her temperature through her ear.]
you're hot. 99.3 [checks the pulse in her throat.] you been coughing?
pain in urinating?
immunosuppressants block fevers; you shouldn't have one at all. i'm sending a nurse in here to draw cultures and i'm ordering a chest x-ray.
i wasn't making any more mistakes.
she spikes a fever an hour later.
no it's just an infection. one of our cultures is growing a strep.
she's dehydrated her hematocrit's way up it's strep!
it's just stress from the strep.
she's not rejecting the liver! it's just an infection she'll be fine.
sam we're talking about her right now. her fever might--
brother had an undiagnosed hepatoma that was transplanted with his liver. grew a lot faster in kayla because she was immunosuppressed.
hepatitis can cause liver cancer. plus her hematocrit red blood cell count was high. usually means dehydration rare cases - cancer. we probably saved sam's life.
we were able to operate on him early enough before it metastasized.
kayla had already started rejecting the liver.
nothing we could do.
she would have died six months ago if he hadn't given up his liver.
well he's obviously out of his mind!
[sighs.] before she checked out sam found her a second liver.
black market. there was a doctor in mexico city who was going to do the surgery.
she's leaving from jfk at 5.
you want to rat me out to house? he'll say if there's a chance in a billion then go for it.
you think she wants to die?
we need to talk.
two minutes. kayla i made a mistake. i wasn't as blunt as i should have been about your odds. probably didn't want to face it myself.
stress of the travel the operation even then the cancer.
my dad died. lung cancer. i saw him a couple of months before it happened we never talked about it.
[not paying any attention to sam.] he never even told me he was sick. i wish he had. it wou-- [he stops and takes a deep breath.] you're gonna die. alone. thousand of miles from your children you don't want to do that to them.
a week later kayla died at home. sam was furious. gotta be why the big lawsuit.
he was ready to kill me! maybe he's lying to his lawyers.
so how's everything else? the girls?
good.
you're moving?
i killed your sister. i misdiagnosed her ulcer. killed her.
i was hung-over when she came back to see me. i'd been up half the night drinking had a headache and i just wanted to get the hell out of there. couldn't have cared less what your sister was saying about her stomach pain.
you think i'm lying? it's exactly what i told him.
i killed his sister!
they didn't put poison in your coffee.
what does it matter why? is she less dead if i have a good excuse?
you knew?
[on the phone.] this is robert. [he starts to get visibly distressed.] umm what did he die of? [pause.] that's impossible. i saw him two months ago if he had lung cancer he would have [he doesn't bother to even say goodbye as he takes the phone away from his ear his eyes start to fill with tears.]
how'd you know?
how did you know to look?
why didn't you tell me he was dying?
[getting angry.] so you just hung me out there to be blindsided.
you're not going to say anything?
right but addicted to pills not gambling.
gambling doesn't take away his pain. [house enters.]
hot otb babe? obviously a working girl probably an std infection.
what if the tumor is somewhere else? there could be an acth-secreting tumor on her lung or pancreas.
not as rare as an invisible tumor.
lungs look clean. pilar lymph nodes not enlarged.
neither did i.
i was kidding.
you sabotaged yourself. you went on a date with house you slept with me. putting you in charge of this department is like a sexual harassment suit waiting to happen.
maybe that's the problem. being in charge means having to say no to house. would you hire you for that?
looks malignant probably inoperable. i'd give her two months.
magnify three times.
the mass in the pancreas is benign; it's probably just scar tissue.
who reads those things?
she's not on antibiotics.
100% commitment. sign of a good liar.
the wolf doesn't eat the parents!
if her bone marrow was dying the entire blood panel would be affected. her white count's normal.
no way i just got back from a suspension.
why don't you just get the sample yourself? since when do you care what your boss said?
can't.
i'm not afraid of foreman. i agree with him all the tests back him up.
i also realize that no matter what i do you're still gonna treat me like crap.
never even made it into the room.
she must have somehow grabbed insulin on the way out.
she had no fever.
explains everything except the white count.
have you been taking any drugs?
how many stories are there?
thirty people saw him trip one person says he didn't. who are we going to believe?
even if he fell drug use is far more likely. i'm ordering a tox screen [opens the door ready to leave.]
[furrows his brow.] you're not my boss.
are you signing my paychecks? are you hiring or firing?
the only thing you've been asked to do is supervise house in case he does something insane.
his 02 stats going down!
and then there was one. [he shows them the newly delivered test results.] urine test was positive for amphetamines.
they do if you smoke them.
[seats himself in house's chair.] everybody lies. [he starts playing with house's ball.]
except if he does have encephalitis steroids could weaken his immune system.
we've got an mri scheduled in 20 minutes. earliest foreman could get the machine.
any family history of neurological problems?
have you been out of the country in the last 5 years?
3 years?
2 years?
alcohol?
amphetamines?
you tested positive. [fletcher gives him a look.]
every day? [fletcher nods.] no slippery slope there. [chase turns the mri on but fletcher suddenly grabs chase's arm. chase quickly stops the machine.]
we're not going to tell your wife. we're not cops. [mri continues.]
if it's meningitis we have to id the bug fast. we need to do a lumbar puncture.
so what are your orders?
there is no more information!
[finds a third bottle.] topamax.
it's not even prescribed to him.
which gives us another lie. must really be devoted. should we check the home?
then maybe she's hiding something.
nothing but aspirin and flu meds in the bathroom.
hmm home improvement. he probably thought he could take the project on then realized it was a little more than he could handle.
what happened to the foreman who always has an answer? the guy who practically wears a sign saying i'm as good as house but i'm nicer.
i guess it's safe to be confident when house is there to overrule you. now that it's all on you...
we've been trying; he's not answering his cell.
what do you mean by doing the lp just right? we're not going to screw up.
you'll die. if there's anything you haven't told us...?
preliminary results are some kind of infection which... narrows it down...
at the rate his organs are deteriorating he's got maybe a day or two.
thain? [thain: an anglo-saxon term for a minor noble; best known from shakespeare (macbeth) or tolkien (military leader of the hobbits of the shire).]
no we're hiding something.
what else is there? you think we should start guessing randomly?
he did?
so he only talks during mri's and lumbar punctures? your theory is he can only talk with a needle in his back or--
are we sure he wasn't reacting to pain? he's been on painkillers.
house?
her arms spasm uncontrollably and there's a mild facial twitch.
could stroke.
huntington's patients don't progress to psychosis in a day.
indicating it might be something other than huntington's.
margo you're gonna hurt someone.
how about toxins?
you're thinking drugs?
doubt if he makes it at all. i saw him leave with stacy.
oh yeah. that sounds like house.
i removed the clot which caused the stroke. problem is we don't know where it came from.
which could cause clots. which could have caused her to stroke.
millions of women are on fertility treatments and they don't get cancer.
hoo-hoo?
hold still margo.
oh my god. [his glove has blood on it. machine beeps.]
get him out of here. [camera shows blood dripping onto the floor in a steady stream.]
we've gotta find that bleed.
with what? i hadn't even started the procedure. [they ultrasound margo's abdomen.]
ultrasound showed the bleed was coming from her liver. it's rare but the blood got into her fallopian tubes. in a way it was lucky. let us know we were looking in the wrong place. the tumor's in her liver.
we're running some more tests.
she went to drugs instead of asking for help to manage her life.
50 bucks says they're divorced in a year.
is he even going to survive the burn?
he's dead.
you plug it in.
and a bit of t wave. no ischemia.
[into the intercom.] anesthetist get in here.
could be epilepsy or seizure disorder?
your specificity is impressive. adrenoleukodystrophy.
can't do a lumbar puncture either. [house walks back in again.]
we'd be inserting a needle into an area that's teeming with bacteria. if he doesn't have a brain infection already we'd give him one for sure.
i'm in the subarachnoid space.
think so. [after a moment.] put the probe back where i can see the wire!
look when i get there! i'm flying blind without a contrast ct here!
ms?
maybe pain caused the orgasm. you get a tattoo; the brain releases endorphins which create pleasure.
so what attacks the medial forebrain bundle?
he another dead doctor?
we've already established that we can't get a lumbar puncture.
don't force it.
it's too close to his brain stem it'll herniate. [foreman looks determined.] you're going to paralyze him!
his blood pressure's spiking stop!
he's 180 over 120 he's going to stroke!
vicodin high?
tox screen was clean.
but treatable. cyproheptadine.
where are you going?
vascular malformations?
a super model on smack shocker.
she's never menstruated. sounds like a symptom of drug addiction to me.
implants. i've seen some of her photos. they've grow dramatically since last summer.
you're on.
heroin withdrawal is an extremely painful process but we're going to put you to sleep. you won't feel a thing.
i promise.
getting hooked on drugs? yeah not the best move you've ever made.
you don't have to explain to us.
when you wake up you'll feel a lot better.
it's only been a half an hours since we stopped the medicine.
i said it would take about a half an hour.
so far it means nothing.
she's opening her eyes. alex are you okay? can you hear me?
heh. (he smiles.) do you feel any pain? (she shakes her head.) good let us know if anything changes; if your stomach doesn't feel right anything. (he moves away.)
excuse me. we've got you on what we call a banana bag; vitamins nutrients.
she's faking?
we got models fighting in iraq now?
(scoffing.) oh.
we're gonna need you to keep still.
it's either neurological or psychological. the only thing we know for sure is that it's gonna screw up the mri results which is gonna make house think he's right.
elevated proteins in her csf. (he hands house the test results.)
creutzfeldt-jakob disease.
what do you think house is gonna do to you?
if this guy'd known we'd have to report him he'd never have told house the truth.
she dropped out of high school to make millions of dollars. why does she need more protection than some crack whore shivering in the clinic waiting room?
there's that too.
brain biopsy shows no white matter disease.
any one of the mitochondrial encephalopathies.
okay. who's sending them?
maybe the protein level was some sort of anomaly. it might still just be ptsd.
okay let me rephrase. maybe the protein level was some sort of anomaly. oh my god it might be ptsd.
about a half an hour ago.
if she's gonna start twitching another few minutes. we've got to wait for the remaining ivig to clear her system. (the social worker comes out and walks toward them.)
it's probably testicular cancer.
the symptoms all indicate--
it was flash pulmonary edema. we took a litre of fluid off but the problem wasn't with his lungs. it's his heart. there are vegetations obstructing his mitral valve.
chlamydia cultures would have come back positive.
he's had acid reflux for years. it can't be relevant.
paddles! charging. 250. clear! charging 300. clear! charging 360. clear! epinephrine. [we start to hear no sound except that of the paddles charging and clearing. chase continues in his efforts to revive henry amy is crying in shock in a corner]
his heart is back and sinus rhythm. has a lot of damage though.
you want us to do a differential diagnosis on a dead person?
fever and belly pain. could be a gall bladder infection.
why would you assume that?
no sign of gall bladder infection but there was a cyst.
adenoma?
i'll start her on paromycin and chloroquine.
that's... 20 times the normal dose.
her heartbeat's irregular. looks like global hypokinesis.
amebiasis was our best hope. the fact that her heart rate went back to normal when we stopped the meds pretty much--
house we're down to one there's no obstruction.
how are you feeling sir? [from lucid henry suddenly becomes unconscious] mr arrington? mr arrington? [monitors start beeping]
his heart's not pumping enough blood to his brain we're going to have to give him some help. [to a nurse that's come in] get the balloon ready.
[walks in wearing scrubs and looking weary] he's in a coma.
already did. we either do the surgery now or we find him a new brain too.
hopefully not for a long time.
you're going to have gonorrhea in your system for a while.
he didn't get his beauty sleep. wilson's moved in and apparently has unusually loud toenails.
another guy or girl?
if he's not happily married i don't know who could be.
maybe the first doctor was right. food allergy explains the anaphylaxis.
that would be a little odd considering that's where all his symptoms are.
i think you've had enough caffeine.
-- and the ct showed lung scarring. [they're both staring and house and his juggling skills.]
it's obviously not a reaction to medication you haven't given him any yet.
or it could still be a food allergy.
some homeopathic studies have found a connection between food allergies and autoimmune reactions which could cause lung inflammation.
and now?
patient's still a little old to be chewing paint off the wall.
i don't speak spanish.
it's a five-star $400 a night place they don't cook with ceramic pots.
it could also be a food allergy.
if your tests can be wrong why can't hers?
which i assume he eats with milk one of the most common adult onset food allergies.
we're not convinced of anything yet.
we're doing everything we can.
sorry.
wait wait wait wait. [chase starts to remove them]
if there was an allergic reaction it would be on his back not on his feet.
gonna need some gabapentin in here.
excruciating pain in the lower extremities. not a sign of a food allergy.
tongue swelling airway's closing he's not getting any air.
we're gonna have to intubate. gotta relax bob this is gonna help you breathe. [instead of relaxing bob starts to vomit.]
he's gonna aspirate he needs suction!
there's too much vomit we're never gonna be able to intubate! we need to trach him!
we should start him on cyclophosphamide see if it makes a difference.
interferon isn't an approved treatment for heavy metal toxicity either.
heavy metal tox screen for gold was off the chart.
maybe she was having an affair.
the only thing he did wrong was marry a sociopath.
maybe it's not what was there; it's what she was doing.
so the boyfriend brought in an allergen and is lying about it.
she's allergic to having a sucky social life.
check it anyway. [cameron rolls her eyes and does a salute to his order] cameron. [he opens a window next to the bed. a tree branch is growing exceptionally close to the window]
no alarm on this window.
you can get to the tree from here there's some bark scraped off.
or jane stayed in the tree house tarzan came up.
you guys had sex?
[turns to cameron] latex allergy?
we're going to need a semen sample. [he hands dan a cup] you can use the bathroom over there.
no thinking about dr cameron we'll know.
why stop there call the cops.
and if we nip it in the bud here teenagers will never again have sex. the parents will find out when they get the bill anyway.
pretty much.
congestive heart failure.
good news.
i don't know it just sounded like you.
or no fever because she's been on immuno-suppressants for about 6 months.
particularly because tick paralysis is usually accompanied by a tick. we did two comprehensive physicals looking for insect bites.
spinal lesion from leukaemia?
she's immuno-suppressed. what about botulism?
[running in] o2 stat's down to 90 lungs clear? [to melinda] does your tongue feel swollen?
it's not an allergy.
pushing lorazepam.
melinda's dying.
cuddy wants to get her an mri to rule out a spinal lesion.
pesticides?
she didn't admit anything. he admitted the sex and we didn't ask him about food.
no! no. no no no those are for tourists.
sure. it's no big deal you just have to keep an eye on them. if they get too close punch them in the nose send them on their way. [the woman looks skeptical but shocked chase starts laughing] i had you going.
he's joking.
well you could have just said that you didn't have to screw with me.
what's so urgent?
she agrees with you that this is something more than gastroenteritis?
two patients with two symptoms in common. and 5 symptoms not in common.
this is all because a child has some blood in his diarrhea. he's got a tummy ache if there was any reason to think it was anything worse cuddy would be all over it.
a disease that there have been what maybe 200 reported cases of ever?
no and i don't expect to.
that's not the first time i've seen this file. about a month before cameron was hired some trucker came in here with these symptoms. house decided he was dying. two days and a spinal tap bone marrow extraction and three colonoscopies later we send the guy home with a bunch of painkillers and a diagnosis of a bad cheese sandwich. one of the guys who worked here before me said house tried to cure esther at least 3 other times. you know how people see the virgin mary in danishes and stuff? someone died 12 years ago and house doesn't know why. house sees that case now in... paint peeling and clouds and now this poor kid.
they're not purple they're red. probably just blood blisters.
how long is this going to take?
blood blisters.
it's exactly what we said before garden variety viral gastroenteritis can we go back to the party?
this kid is not esther. you screwed up she died i'm sorry but that does not mean this kid is dying as well.
colonoscopy was clean. and the biopsy was negative for erdheim-chester.
ian's kidneys are shutting down.
i'll go and do a biopsy.
e. coli h0157 causes bloody diarrhea and leads to hemolytic uremic syndrome. toxins from the bacteria causes his kidneys to shut down we should start him on plasmapheresis.
err... did anyone see the lymphoma?
didn't see any in the blood either. white blood cells show no spindling or abnormal nuclei nothing on immuno-chemistries either. it's not lymphoma.
the fact that the end of the line is death... is an advantage?
i'll do an ultrasound.
meds seem to be working. liver's holding its own.
but the platelets are dropping.
why? it means he's getting sicker.
acetylcysteine could mess with the lungs.
the systemic nature suggests juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
what was the old lady's sed rate?
coronary arteries clear. no aneurysms.
no blood clots no ragged edges.
look at the right atrium.
no.
it's small but it's there.
connective tissue?
i'll shut the blinds.
you're in the atrium. pull back. you've hit the wall of the heart.
cardiac arrest! call a code.
nothing.
how much longer are you going to keep doing this?
wait! i've got something.
what are you doing?
it almost killed him.
his brain's been oxygen-deprived for over 8 minutes. there might be nothing left he might--
histiocytosis.
we haven't ruled out leukemia yet.
we should have called her.
sarcoidosis seems most likely.
or it's his immune system histiocytosis.
wing or drumstick?
adding one micro litre of the immunoperoxidase.
the problem could still be an abnormal cell growth but a different cell line.
pretty unlikely to cause a gi bleed.
kr67's negative. and pch antigen is negative.
i vote for neurofibromatosis.
because the other choices suck worse.
because we already did it. he tested negative.
you want it to be there. because then you didn't screw up 12 years ago.
you sure about this?
[gives foreman a wary glance]
schizophrenia?
only medications she'd had recently are steroids for poison ivy and ibuprofen for a knee she hurt skiing.
how far back?
and if her brain can't interpret those cues..
[amused] you want us to make her sicker?
we'll do a colonoscopy.
her partner is donating blood so she's with the nurse.
you have to sedate a patient to do a colonoscopy.
trust me you don't want me to hurry.
maybe.. we shouldn't be talking about this right now?
[sighs] um.. i need you to relax your anus.
i told him... how many cases do we work up in a year? they're all weird he could have written up any one of them.
hold on.
this will numb you up. [sprays an anesthetic spray at the back of hannah's throat] and this will keep your tongue out of the way. [places a ] don't worry you shouldn't feel anything except for a slight pulling.
that article was going to sit on house's desk for the next six years.
you could have written it for her too. she knows house as well as any of us. she should have known she was waiting for him to do something he was never going to do.
[also turns his attention to the female] hannah? still with us?
rapid eye movements. it's what your eyes do when you're sleeping.
sitting up.
not yet we were still doing the---
how do you know?
keeping her awake.
rabies could cause muscle spasms malaise anxiety and wakefulness.
she could have been exposed to an open wound.
allergies.
we should still do a scratch test. if she's allergic to one thing--
did she have access to aspirin?
why not? considering her current mental state.
a bottle of pills is what landed her here in the first place.
yeah. so?
scratch test was negative.
nope pcrs were normal.
what about splenic cancer or non-hodgkins lymphoma? she's the right age.
no kayser-fleischer rings in her eyes.
she's not shrooming she's a sports nut.
blood proteins are normal it's not---
taking a sample of the bile duct.
she had a chance to get one last---
max's cardiac arrest was caused by hypoxia from hypoventilation. they restarted her heart and the right lobe of her liver was successfully transplanted into hannah.
we should start broad spectrum antibiotics.
what about tularemia?
and tell them what?
the... black plague?
it's not psychosis he's just religious. the only medical issue that showed up on the blood work is low sodium.
a lot of people experience their religion as something more than symbolic. that doesn't mean--
[scoffs.] no.
no pigmentation and potassium levels are normal.
you're going to talk to a patient?
boyd? [people all over are staring.] are you alright? boyd! [boyd quiets down.] come on let's go. can you tell me your name? do you know where you are? boyd? boyd?
sorry boyd come on; let's get you back to your room.
let's go.
he's just had a complex partial seizure he's disoriented he doesn't know what he's doing.
the repetition the lack of affect and awareness it was a seizure.
or tuberous sclerosis.
how long have you been healing people?
i'd... like to.
mri shows an abnormal area.
it accounts for all the symptoms.
his symptoms are getting worse which means the tumors are growing. surgery will correct it all - the chemical imbalance the seizures the auditory hallucinations.
they're friends. she thinks he saved her life.
it's already normalized.
isn't he the one we're supposed to save?
mri machine checks out.
checked both. this is insane we're diagnosing a recovery.
she hasn't had radiation for 6 months.
nowhere. her records--
dosages that wouldn't hurt a hamster if it was tied to the machine for a year.
sometimes remissions just happen.
do you have any idea how many electrical devices give off radiation?
i'm going to be here all night.
there's at least 4 different types of pain pills here. and an led device.
this is what happens when it's not our patient. we don't know enough.
she's got a boyfriend.
he could show up any minute! the honor of working for you is not worth a felony charge.
house!
you knew it was me?
the tumor shrank.
do you know what the odds are? she had to have the right type of cancer; he had to have the right type of virus the exposure had to be--
you say won the lottery he says... miracle.
aww its sweet. your dad's proud. you made the local paper.
[reads] our friend lazarus sleeps but i go that i may wake him up. [laughs a little]
he's a cop.
i'm thinking trauma. he's got bullet fragments lodged in his brain.
why are we ignoring the elevated heart rate?
what if the heart was already fast before he got shot?
he's giddy indicates a blockage of oxygen. carbon monoxide gas would elevate the heart rate cause coughing and impair neurological function. [all this time house has been examining the films]
blood test confirmed you have low-level carbon monoxide poisoning. we're putting you inside a high-pressure chamber that [looks at joe to see that he's still giggling and play with the various things currently attached to him] psssh you don't really care do you?
anything toxic you have at your home? any uh paint solvents anything unhygienic?
not now if you have trouble!
[takes it from him] if you have problems we'll push it for you.
how bad does it hurt?
your brain's not getting enough oxygen; you're losing motor function. we should start this right away. [looks to cameron and she nods]
these clouded areas of the upper lobes they're the infiltrates we found yesterday.
they're clearing up. you had legionnaires' now you don't.
what'cha doing?
he really thinks he can see.
we can't do an mri. if the bullet fragment's magnetic they'll move and rip his brain apart.
next best thing to an mri.
what are you looking for?
there appears to be some clotting possibly around the circle of willis. based on the progression of symptoms the clot is growing. we need to cut into-
maybe it's worth attempting surgery to remove the fragments.
he's set.
[clears throat] they have to uh shut down the magnet to fix it. mri's gonna be out of commission for at least two weeks.
the blindness hasn't.
heart's clean.
we could ultrasound his legs look for a dvt. i need you to move over.
tachycardia heart rate 150 and rising.
get the saline wide open!
intracranial bleeding. we need to relieve the pressure!
kind of mushy.
west nile or eastern equine encephalitis
what was that who wants to go next'? some kind of test?
sorry it's this damn suit.
[sighs] mri showed a lesion on your cingulate cortex.
toxins are in the lead viral's a distant second.
it's just a small soft area more mush than
there was an increased signal there yeah. [foreman gets up] what're you thinking?
not without a fever.
negative for west nile and eastern equine.
it would be his fault if we did.
[stops and looks at house] you wanna give foreman a brain biopsy?
this could be a simple staph infection causing neurodegeneration.
joe had a fever!
the mush might be forming an abscess. and since there was inflammation in the lining of the ventricles it makes sense. the staph releases toxins causes neurodegeneration causes a lesion.
we should put an ommaya reservoir in foreman's brain to start administrating antibi-
this one?
next.
foreman why aren't you answering? is there a problem?
yeah. next?
we have foreman's biopsy results. non-specific signs of inflammation
his result for staph: negative. he's not even a carrier.
for what?
that's thousands
it's not sspe. i checked your past vaccinations against joe's. no batch matches.
he's over his limit on morphine.
she said she has some stuff to do. said she'd be back soon.
what are you doing?
[yelling] foreman!
[hitting the window yelling] mainline morphine into his carotid could stop his heart!
[obviously flabbergasted] you're condoning this?
yeahyou could've saved us a lot of time.
i was waiting for the lab confirmation i haven't heard from house yet.
beta bands could indicate at least half a dozen different things.
she's not giddy.
fever's down. white count's improving.
you mean like i can plainly understand why foreman did what he did and i hold no grudge?'
give him the amio
no good! hit him again!
give him an amp of epi!
foreman.
physically his eyes are fine. the problem's isolated to his brain. damage to the occipital lobe which extends from the primary visual cortex to the <U+0096>
toxic mold.
it was funny.
neither of them had any sort of paralysis.
what about arbovirus?
mixing that many meds will create all sorts of toxic interactions.
they're gonna lock joe up downstairs until the cdc gets here. [since foreman is staring in joe's direction] foreman you can't see.
house wants to start you on some meds. they're in the airlock.
leading candidate is toxic mold.
house thinks this is the best course of action.
it's better than doing nothing. [foreman swallows all the pills.]
latest bloodwork. foreman's amylase and lipase levels are three times normal.
toxic side effect of his meds.
lower dosages would still be toxic <U+0096>
field of vision is regressing and he's reached an eight on the pain scale.
only it's moving much faster in foreman.
joe's a cop. he's into physical fitness he could have had a more powerful immune system stronger metabolism.
some bacterial infections don't affect rats.
if the body doesn't recognize the infection our tests come back negative and the disease rampages through the body unstopped.
mr. foreman? we need to put your son in a coma. you should be there.
yeah but once we put him out if we don't solve this he won't wake up.
just tell him you love him.
prep the drill. we've gotta be ready if we get the signal.
obviously breathing now. continue to blow by stat portable test.
hopefully. he needs to be checked out by the nicu.
has your wife had a seizure before?
[to a nurse] lungs are clear get an eeg confirm that brain functions are ok.
you don't need me for this.
polyarteritis nodosa. inflamed arteries in the brain cause seizures inflamed arteries in the kidneys cause calcium build-up.
dad vomited this morning maybe they've both got strep.
sorry cuddy says i'm stuck here.
they say that physical contact helps the healing process.
your son's not getting enough oxygen [to a nurse] take mr mason outside.
lung's collapsed he's not getting any air i need an iv catheter!
his lung wouldn't have collapsed if he was ok.
a little busy here.
i'll get right on it as soon as i finish indulging my boss.
chemical pneumonitis. bubble bath got into the baby's lungs when he was underwater. start him on prednisone; keep him on high fio2 [to a nurse].
lithium could cause all 3 of the mother's symptoms.
i'm not putting that baby on ecmo the chance of there being bacteria in bathwater--
i'm not working nicu because of you. the baby's x-ray suggests a chemical pneumonitis.
i needed a break. from the patients. they lie to us all the time foreman almost died trying to save a drug-dealing cop. i just wanted to get away from that for a while.
ecmo could kill him.
ecmo stands for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation; basically we remove your son's blood--
we run it through a machine which takes out carbon dioxide and adds oxygen. then we re-warm the blood and run it back into his body. there is a significant risk of internal haemorrhaging and he may also suffer from--
not fast enough.
absolutely.
mr mason because of the damage done to your son's kidneys his potassium is climbing. it's causing irregular heartbeats. i'm doubling the meds and starting him on dialysis. unless we get his potassium down he's going to have a heart attack.
potassium's still too high. no pulse get him off the machine. [nurse hands him paddles] charge it up to 10. clear!
[hands the paddles back to her] another amp of epi!
don't think she's ever going to be sane again. her son just died.
i should have given him more polystyrene.
one gram. his potassium just kept rising.
let cameron do it.
i told you i just wanted to trust patients.
[he tries to grab it from house but house pulls it out of his reach] i'm not rich.
i'm not rich.
god of compassion take michael into your arms welcome him into paradise. there will be no sorrow no weeping and no pain. peace and joy forevermore. [whispers] i'm sorry. [he continues with the autopsy]
[walks in] baby's intestines show slight villus atrophy.
the baby didn't have colic he had celiac disease?
acute myocardial infarction?
i don't think she was expecting your sympathy. i think her point was new orleans was a third-world country: toxins mold sewage in the streets
she's out.
i'm in. [cg of the catheter entering the heart.]
haven't zapped her yet.
sinoatrial node is normal
got supraventricular tachycardia.
iv push stat 12.5 of adenosine.
normal rhythm.
her heart's fragile after that last attack. the chances of tachycardia <U+0096>
it's near the coronary sinus.
damaged heart muscle gone. [something] complete.
her heart's fine. if she hallucinated it wasn't caused by her heart.
anyone want to explain that?
his leg always hurts.
bone marrow transplant requires an exact match. leona has no siblings.
lab results from the black ooze. you're not going to believe it.
in order for there to be digested blood in her intestines there had to be internal bleeding.
i'm right at her liver.
you're saying he didn't do drugs?
it's too early to see jaundice from the liver.
deferoxamine is a chelating agent. it binds to the iron and the liver can get rid of it. once the iron's out of the liver it's finally evacuated from the body in the form of urine. should be quick and painless. [cut to a cg of a black mass breaking off and then breaking holes in her veins.] leona?
crash cart! she's not getting any air. [chase puts a tube down her throat.]
ct shows her lungs are swiss cheese. ventilator's helping but at this point her time is basically up.
removes excess iron from the liver.
iron is heavy it gets stuck. deferoxamine is like a lubricant. it makes the iron slick so it can move around again.
it's supposed to be discharged through waste.
oxygen attaches itself to iron which increases the chance of infection.
her mri was clean no iron deposits on the brain.
if a fungus is doing all this she's dead. there are 25 anti-fungals if we don't know which <U+0096>
crandall says she was living in the children's shelter in ridgeland.
recording studio doesn't help us medically.
you asked him what book he's currently reading.
he can't breathe. [they start to prep him for a tracheostomy.]
are you sure you want to be doing this?
we would have done an lp two days ago if the risks hadn't so obviously outweighed the benefits. we just cut a hole in his throat. the equation has changed.
well within normal. that's good.
lp wouldn't do this. lots of pressure behind got to relieve it. [the eye starts to bug out and pop out of its socket. ew.]
we should get back. you're supposed to be chained to your bed.
you think the surgeon would have noticed a giant growth while sticking the eyeball back in.
the brain doesn't have a lymph system.
and azithromycin for stds.
we did find blood.
the wrong side.
the wrong side's the wrong side it can't make sense.
we'll check the lymphatic system in the chest.
the saliva glands in the tongue are connected to the lymphatic system in the lungs. it's the next lymphatic system over.
it's important that you're up asap after surgery. think you can urinate? [he leads vince to the bathroom and waits outside the door. vince grunts in pain and looks down.]
what you're getting aroused?
surgeons found no evidence of a burst artery.
trauma?
maybe he's not human.
surgeon found no growths.
test was negative.
everything was right where it was supposed to be all the tubes go where they're supposed to go.
what are you talking about?
test was negative.
we've already redone them twice.
you take a sample <U+0096>
it's a small representative piece of whatever you think is the problem.
we can't operate he's got a bleeding problem.
yeah because he bled from where he wasn't supposed to bleed causing parts of his body to blow up! assuming that crazy assumption is correct we operate on him we'll kill him.
great. what's he got?
we've worked with you long enough to know <U+0096>
because i think you're going to kill him.
once in the abdomen once in the neck.
