he's been gone two months. he can wait till i finish slaying a guy in a skullcap and a pair of tights.
on advice of counsel i assert my privilege pursuant to the fifth.
uh i think it was after... when did his girlfriend die? he wanted time alone. i considered being a horrendous pain in the ass but i didn't want to tread on your turf.
i've gotta remember to close the blinds.
i dated her. well not really dated her. more metaphorically raped her by having a penis. [to foreman] you did too.
well either she cracked under the whip or she started to realize that her evolutionary purpose is to arouse men not to castrate them. send her to psychiatric.
then it's the latter. send her to my apartment. [he reaches for the file.]
sorry can't help you. you need a specialist to remove those kind of warts. preferably one with experience spelunking.
hallucinations possible memory loss. tests show anemia slow heart rate and a stubborn refusal to shave her pits.
nope. but i have seen the patient's frequent flyer balance. eastern europe asia third-world countries. sometimes more than one a day.
is wilson hallucinating ants crawling all over him too? tox screen's cleaner than the windows she won't do. [his pacing brings him to the windows for the second time. he looks out.]
[big sigh] great. now everyone knows.
is that what she said? i thought she said i am suddenly and irrationally defending the patient's strong career even though in reality she's just a glorified grunt because i'm trying to convince myself that it's okay not to have a life because i don't have a life because i was tested for huntington’s and my life span's been cut in half. been waiting two months for her to say that.
hyper segmented polys says that taub's right. pump her full of b12. see how a strong career woman's been made sick by her strong career.
my patient is still fighting in the feminist trenches but the war is over. yesterday's sluts are today's empowered women. today's sluts are celebrities. if that isn't progress —
what are you gonna take another two months? boy you're really milking this bereavement thing aren't you? [pause] i mean good for you. you take all the time you need.
okay. that's an understandable reaction.
you of all people should know this is bereavement 101. you think that a change of venue —
i'm not saying you're not in pain.
i'm saying that pain fades.
physical pain is different.
well you don't know that 'cause you haven't felt —
busy.
actually as you can see i’m not busy. it's just a euphemism for get the hell out of here. [she leaves. house turns back to wilson.] this is your grief talking. and yeah it is a bit textbook. so before you give away all your possessions to the salvation army —
[sighs] two false positive pregnancy tests bradycardia lower gi bleed. go.
also would have shown on a sonogram.
no urinary bleed. [he looks through the closed blinds on his window and starts walking out of the office.]
keep going.
you're being an idiot. you're gonna blow up your career. and six months from now when you've moved on from amber to burnt sienna you're gonna be stuck in a mobile oncology truck in pewaukee wisconsin.
you can't hide from misery.
my skull was cracked open trying to save her!
who's obviously not going anywhere with a bloody rectum.
actually he’s about to thrust a tanto into the belly of his career.
buy a plant.
i respect things that deserve respect. this decision on the other hand is a dog wearing a cape!
the patient tested positive for pregnancy because the patient is pregnant.
you're too busy to be running a day care center in your abdomen.
not to mention you should wait till at least 30 to punish that pleasure portal with a seven-pound tissue expander.
[looks at her] 37? impressive. too bad you’re not passing on those genes. [to thirteen] does that look false to you? you were looking in the wrong room. it's more common when the egg lands in the oven. sometimes it winds up in the fallopian tubes. in rare cases it plummets through the plumbing entirely. it's using her intestine as a blood supply. it caused the rectal bleed and now... junior miss steinem’s junior must be pressing on her vagus nerve slowing her heart to a crawl. yank the fetus. she survives the surgery she'll be fine.
she doesn’t.
just terminating the fetus when it's glued to her intestines is high-risk surgery. saving it is a fantasy. that was at least three seconds.
people get what they get. it has nothing to do with what they deserve. and this has nothing to do with her genitalia and everything to do with your genetics.
i didn't know it was gonna color your every medical opinion every personal opinion.
[he turns to her angry.] people die! you amber everyone. don't act like you just figured that out. i gave you a diagnosis. you don't like it there are exits on every floor.
[approaches] treating professional sports injuries now?
familiar with the concept of sarcasm. don't sweat it it's new. [to cameron] have you spoken to wilson?
i put the bisexual chick on that. if you'd like to sit in so to speak...
what'd you tell him?
so you could feel good about doing nothing. you gotta tell him —
she dumped me when i lost the last 85 pounds. said there was less of me to love.
grief is newark. okay it's there. you can't avoid it. the idea is to hold your nose hope the traffic’s not too bad and get on to manhattan as quickly as possible not to buy property.
i'm not the one who's quitting.
but you have. he’ll listen to you. what did you do when your husband died?
see how crappy that worked out?
you have to stop wilson from committing career malpractice.
i already talked to him twice. he threw me out.
block his references to other hospitals. tell him he can’t hand off his cases until —
that's a brilliant idea. i'll take him out for a beer. that'll make up for the fact that amber's in a pine box. that there's randomness and chaos in the universe.
i didn't kill her.
yeah if her daddy hadn’t been drunk she might never have been born. so —
i didn't ask her to come out. i wasn't driving the bus. i wasn't driving the garbage truck that hit the bus. and i did not prescribe her the flu meds that killed her.
it'd be meaningless.
if i told you that i was sorry would it change anything?
if you believed me.
i'm going home... [he slides the phone closer to wilson] …until you agree to stay at this hospital.
your conscience bleeds more freely than my head. [the phone buzzes again. house picks it up.] text. patient's in cardiac arrest. ouchy. [he puts it back on wilson’s desk.]
if it keeps you here. your friendship matters more to me than this patient.
yeah. but it comes easier for me.
not at all. you mind if i leave?
and the two ended up dovetailing rather nicely don't you think?
because he's my friend i know what works on him.
then fire me.
i told him i'm sorry. he didn't believe it.
i don't believe it.
you had my cable disconnected!
why? did you think i'm okay with letting someone die but i'm gonna fold if i can't watch celebrity bowling?
you go girl.
so what do you want to tell us?
actually you should read the psych literature. repression's gaining a lot of fans. what you don't face can't crush you.
[to wilson pleasantly] how you doing? good?
think you're an idiot. we both also eat with forks. that doesn't really prove —
i told him he's an idiot.
i think he's an idiot.
you told me what your position is on that one. you're against it right?
so much for that theory.
[stands] same time next week?
it's almost 4:00. soap time. [he reaches over the desk and grabs something.] nurses' remote. works in the doctors' lounge.
how many times do i have to use the word idiot?
try it sometime. you'll see why.
you look 37.
you looked 27 last week. unless i blacked out for ten years. your skin —
stop the chemo.
she have bruising? [he takes a syringe from a drawer.]
it's not lymphoma.
my bad. thought no meant yes. those aren't bruises. they're mycobacterial lesions. she has diffuse lepromatous leprosy. must have caught it on one of her overseas estrogen tours. chemo wipes out some of the bacteria she feels a little better. wipes out most of her immune system she gets a whole lot worse.
actually this is the flattering one. it's also known as pretty leprosy. it doesn't disfigure it makes your skin look younger smoother. don't let the girls hear. they'll all want to lick your face. unless you're that kind of feminist. [to taub and thirteen] blast her with antibiotics and prednisone. she'll be fine. [he looks at his watch.] damn it's after 4:00. i'm late. [he leaves.]
i like you better now that you're dying.
you took a shot.
you thought something would change?
almost dying changes nothing. dying changes everything.
i'm sorry. i know i didn't try to kill her. i know i didn't want her hurt. i know it was a freak accident. but i feel like crap and she's dead because of me.
then we're okay? i mean i know you're not but... maybe i can help.
what did wilson do for me?
oh sure he made me laugh on a rainy day made me see the colors i never knew —
on the other hand gilbert gottfried makes me laugh. and how many colors are there really? once you got red blue and green —
[getting up to leave] it's cancer.
you're right of course. what was i thinking?
the fighter's irrelevant.
it would be a coincidence if six transplant recipients had nothing else wrong with them — like being an idiot which leads to getting your head knocked off. the others had cancer.
redo the thousand tests and the four autopsies. taub and kutner check out the donor. find out which cancer —
find out which cancer would have killed him. check the home and office for carcinogens toxins —
find out which cancer killed them. [foreman stands with his arms folded while the others leave.] did i forget you? you can check out the patient's eye.
put this on dr. o'shea. [he reaches over dr. o’shea.] and some chips.
no.
[quietly as he follows o’shea toward the tables] check.
word is you're into monster trucks.
but not you?
you're astute. [he takes some pills.] no.
vicodin opioids some b12. need a little kick in the afternoon. you got a problem with that? [o’shea ignores him and picks up some food from his tray.] i think i'm falling in love.
no it's not. everyone else's transplanted organs were fine. it means her eye is fine.
it's her only working eye.
[to o’shea] do you have some ethical problem with what i'm doing that you could express in a unique way which might actually make me think that i'm wrong even though i'll never admit it?
you are funny. [to foreman] the problem's not in her eye. it's in her head. [to o’shea] you wanna come over and watch prescription passion at my place tonight?
neither am i. if you don't want to have sex that's cool with me.
i'll grow on you.
whatever he's got you've got. fifth line.
pretty sure. fifth line.
can we talk about something besides you for a moment? like maybe the fifth line?
damn.
a moment ago you thought you were dying. blind's actually good news. unfortunately he's wrong.
she didn't squint. which means the eye thinks it's fine.
i know. the eye doesn't think. the brain thinks which means if the thinking's wrong the brain's wrong. which means it's spread to the brain which means it's too late for us to remove the eye. which means we're gonna have to remove your whole head. don't worry. [he holds up a huge meat cleaver.] it doesn't hurt.
hallucination. that's a brain thing right?
it does if one of the other organ recipients also had a brain issue. did he just drop his hands? [they’re watching film of the kick boxing fight.]
if his pupils dilated if his pupils were fixed if there was a twitch...
yesterday. you live you learn. who shot this?
can't see the dead guy's face. i can't see his face. can't see the twitch can't see the pupils —
what kind of idiot wears argyle socks with construction boots?
he's apparently a very bad private investigator.
because i wanted to find out what you guys found out before i find out what he found out. so i can find out if i need a private investigator. so nu?
i'll get you a check.
you think i'm gonna stop payment?
of course i am $2300 is insane.
pupils were dilated.
say it.
god that was petty of me.
it's the whole reason you went to medical school. i'm not gonna take that away from you.
and costs more. gonna biopsy the brain.
say it.
temporal lobe controls speech hearing memory. she loses those things she's gonna be a terrific date but beyond that —
you're right. she has so much to live for. [they’re standing outside the patient room. they look at apple.] do we have another patient who's almost finished with all their living? [house moves a couple of steps down so they’re looking at frank.]
no it's okay to stab his brain because he's dead if you don't. get the widow to say yes.
did you get the consent?
tell foreman to get it. old people are scared of black people.
save the brain. don't need consent for an autopsy.
well at best we're gonna bat one for six on this one.
brain's clean. moving on.
metabolic diseases specialize. everything else specializes but cancer plays the field.
metastasis is just a fancy word for screws around.
i don't know.
there is. we just haven't found it yet.
give me something else that explains this constellation of patients then you can call me an ass.
okay. it's a long shot. it is possible that i'm an ass. ironically we need to do a colonoscopy to confirm.
she starts getting abdominal pain shove a tube up her rear before it can get away. and test anyone else with stomach pain.
not everyone. the one thing the donor gave to each of these people is his dna. anyone else have his dna?
she has a tummy ache. if kutner's right it's not a tummy ache it's a fatal brain or heart or lung or liver or pancreas ache.
fine. tell her the truth. then ask if daddy knows who the real daddy is.
what if a kid wants ice cream?
what'd you find out?
'cause i need to know if he lends money interest-free. what did you find out?
i don't know the guy. i got no logical reason —
you're taking pictures of a guy who's having an affair with his own sister. and you're lecturing me about the rewards of trust.
do you have a special rate plan for being a pain in the ass?
which type am i?
you lead with the irrelevant types?
that's an actual type?
how do you know about wilson?
you checking me out? have i been paying for that?
[house thinks then looks away as he asks] is there?
i gotta go. i'll get you a check.
then that just leaves cancer.
yes the fact that it didn't prove anything didn't prove anything. excellent point.
unfortunately we can't know when shortly before death is until shortly after death. and that seems like an obstacle.
then we're kind of all sweating over nothing.
do it.
what if we don't have conversations we've already had? four out of the five didn't linger. they got sick and died. we don't have time to dismiss things we've already dismissed.
see that's an example of a conversation we've already had. she's sick. something fits.
[exasperated] no! okay from now on no one says anything unless no one's said it before.
you guys start immuno-gels on her csf to look for hidden protein markers. then start sequencing her genes. i'm gonna start treatment. [he gets his jacket from the coat rack and opens the door.]
cancer.
it's something. which means we should treat her for something.
she's fine. where's her chart?
i know. that was bad of me. but i'm pretty sure the chart's supposed to be attached to the bed so that gimp doctors don't have to look all over the place while patients die. [she picks up the chart from the table past the curtains and gives it to him.] thank you so much. and some peppermint tea when you get a chance. [she gives him a “look” and leaves.]
[to apple] i need you to sign something. consent to chemotherapy.
no.
nope.
that's a good question. it deserves a complicated answer. placebo effect. people have confidence in doctors. they have confidence in diagnoses confidence in medicine. sometimes they get a little better just because they think they will. and that can make us think that the wrong answer is the right answer. which is very bad.
if that were true and it would certainly make sense do you think i could tell you that it's true? [enormous wink. she signs.]
didn't you cover all this personal stuff with dr. foreman?
you're a post-corneal transplant math teacher. i deduced that you were a blind math teacher.
[interested] you gave up architecture after you could see?
no.
you're fun.
i haven't given up. [he leaves.]
so who are we following?
you point at the target?
[house focuses on the target with his cane.] pretty. who hired you?
you're stalking her?
you are stalking her just not for very long. so what else can you tell me that i might care about?
what…? [he turns to join lucas.] if she turns her head she's gonna see that we're walking the wrong direction.
well i'm not.
how do you know what they're talking about?
you'd get laid more often if you told them you lost a kid.
you're a pi who can't lie?
[simultaneously] no.
lesson one: commit.
she's not your type. your type is much stupider than her. what did wilson say about me?
in the grief counseling or in the other —
i could tell at once.
it's not cancer.
labs show that our patient is healthier. she's gonna get sicker. then she's gonna die. i brought thai food.
nothing. it's not cancer. all the tests say it's not cancer. they've always said it's not cancer.
eh treatment proves it could be cancer. it's not cancer.
i never thought it was cancer.
i thought that what she had acted like cancer. if it acts like cancer maybe it'll respond like cancer.
we have to find something that walks like cancer talks like cancer tastes like cancer [pops some food in his mouth] but isn't cancer.
i do. and so does tetrault.
the dead tuba player.
the point is he died last but he died. which means she's gonna die too.
there's a cancer drug that's used off-label for arthritis.
did you interview all the tuba students?
then it wasn't in his hands.
one of them is canadian. brought him methotrexate so he could hide his arthritis. already couldn't afford his insurance. and that little piece of business cost me $700. i'm gonna pass it on to the patient with a steep mark-up.
i know. she's dead unless we can find what's cancer... but not cancer. [they all think silently.] something's missing.
i need an epiphany. [wilson stares at him tight-lipped.] what are you billing out at $300 an hour? here's four.
better oncologists. but i need you. [he balls up the money and throws it past wilson into the apartment.] let me describe the symptoms problems issues and you say whatever you feel like saying until something triggers an idea in my head.
you have a way of thinking about things. it's sloppy it's undisciplined it's not very linear. it complements mine. it drives me down avenues that i wouldn't otherwise —
cancer but not cancer. responds to cancer treatment but there's no — [wilson tries to close the door but house blocks it.] how are you?
by hanging out with cameron talking to cuddy foreman but not me. i… [short mirthless laugh] i paid a private investigator to spy on you.
you want to move on from me you got to deal with me talk to me.
we're not friends anymore. there's no trust to be breached. i can have you followed i can call you names tell your secrets. [they look at each other.] foreman did a ct. temporal and frontoparietal regions are normal. occipital lobe normal.
nothing yet. keep talking.
you charge me for listening in on my own conversations?
how many friends do you have?
seriously? you have a list?
well done. i have one. had one.
shut up. friends allow you to not sit in a room by yourself. are you charging me for this?
no.
do you wanna be my friend?
he thinks if he's not a friend he can't talk to me. we can talk we can be two human beings talking —
yes you did. i was in the middle of a sentence.
i'm grateful. make your point.
and anything can be anything. [looks at his watch] 10:10. stop the clock. [he starts walking away.]
the world is not as ugly as she thinks it is.
cancer but not cancer. doesn't make any sense unless... [he pulls an x-ray from a folder.] brain but not brain. occipital lobe's normal. but her eyes suck. that lobe should be compensating. since it's not that tells me that something's in there that shouldn't be in there. brain but not brain.
to find the anomaly i need to chop off the top of her head. pretty sure i need your approval for that.
i'm not usually confused when you say things like that.
cancer stem cells are real. they explain everything. they're like embryonic stem cells. they become whatever they want. donor had them the recipients got them. they floated around they landed on an organ got bathed in cytomes and partially differentiated. and the key word there is partially. in the tuba player they became lung but not lung. in the tennis player they became heart but not heart. stop me if you've figured out the pattern. they looked as if they belonged but they weren't doing their jobs. and when they were really needed boom. chemo worked because cells are basically tumors. chemo shrunk them. [he looks at her.] you're still gonna say no aren't you?
i have the brain scan.
this is why i need to take off her head.
to treat. chemo's not killing anything. it's just hiding the real problem. she's gonna crash. if we wait until she does crash it might be too late.
i would never do that.
[on intercom from observation area] you might want to check her iv. from here it looks like saline instead of chemo.
still. you should probably check.
how could i? i had no access.
do the surgery.
no reason not to. the stupidly dangerous part is already over with.
except for the part that isn't brain.
i'm a better liar than you are.
yup. the neural net will show us how fast her neurons are firing. if there's something in the way say... brain that's not brain the normal neural impulses will be sucked into a vortex because they're unable to do their job. the computer will then process it and give us a picture of where to cut.
excuse me?
i'm on the clock.
[looks at monitors next to him.] i see it. can you get it?
turns out you didn't kill her.
how'd you know who it is?
yeah like you're a field of roses. [he pushes the emergency buzzer for the nurses. the same two enter.] peppermint tea.
never really bought that. i don't care how often a kid cries he's being eaten by a wolf mom's gonna come running. [the nurses leave. to apple.] the world is ugly. people kill. they go hungry. [he buzzes again. just one nurse comes in.] just proving a point. [she leaves.] people are asses.
because the world is not as ugly as you think it is. your transplanted cornea's fine your eye is fine but your brain wasn't working right. i'm gonna take the gauze off your eyes now. it's gonna be bright.
the brain cells that weren't brain cells were in the way of processing visual information correctly. after the transplant you could see but not see.
yeah but it was dull or foggy or gray. i don't know. what i do know is that you were not seeing what everyone else was seeing.
things'll be what they are. [he removes the last of the bandages.] how do i look?
hey. is there any way i could put you on retainer?
why's this in here?
[looks at it and smiles] today is going to be a good day.
[simultaneously] no.
she means are you the private investigator whose bills i've tried to slip through as medical expenses?
information saves lives. saving lives saves money.
you don't like her shoes. you like her legs.
less creepy more gay.
no idea. whoever fixed ours is about to get stiffed. [he balls up one of the sheets of paper and tosses it in the trash can. two points.]
apparently a moron. one er routinely tests for drugs. if it was positive we wouldn't be looking at this file. two who pays 12% interest on a car loan?
no. that would be illegal. interestingly enough paying someone to run it for me though… [the entire team looks annoyed.] what? it's part of my job.
which i do with the team. how am i supposed to know how best to utilize that team if i don't know everything about them? say that van gogh turns out to have neurosyphilis and our last vial of penicillin is in a storeroom at the end of a 20-mile hallway with a two-foot high ceiling.
no. i would never out someone's super powers. [he wheels his chair to his desk and gives thirteen a pile of papers that was there.] this on the other hand…
i got nothing on taub.
taub's wife on the other hand…
dad's right. this is no time for gossip. a patient desperately needs our help. check his head and his house.
[grabbing report out of thirteen’s hand] nope. he's very busy.
so is his head. even with contrast no masses no lesions. a neurological symptom with no apparent neurological cause.
just leaves toxins or drugs.
yeah. when she said it she had other options. and i really just wanted to segue into her stupid loan and your —
really?
is his girlfriend hot? i'm not talking fever here. i mean is she all curvy and perky?
that explains why all his paintings suck. and what's wrong with him. [he starts to leave.]
to tell him he may have a massive brain tumor.
i know. i'm not a moron. it's drugs.
you seem to have a massive brain tumor.
we found no trace on any of your imaging so we need to cut your head open. it's risky but it's the only way to save your life.
wrong answer.
you're not allowed to not be terrified. there's only two good reasons not to be terrified in a hospital. you're delusional. but then you're not afraid of contrast material either. or you know you're fine. since we haven't told you you're fine you obviously have information that we don't have. what drugs are you on?
drug tests only test for drugs they've made tests for.
hottie thinks that he's a great artist selling art to the rich and tasteful. she's stupid enough to be fooled by the canvases but bank accounts don't lie. he needed money. [to brandon] there's not many jobs you can do that don't require time training and intelligence. and i know you're not a news anchor or a supermodel 'cause those jobs seldom cause agnosia. [to thirteen] he's a guinea pig. companies pay him to test their untested drugs. [pause. brandon doesn’t say anything.] did hottie go for a pee or coffee? either way i don't think we should waste any time on denials.
admirable. not many idiots have that much ambition. you've been symptom-free since your admission so whatever you took has probably cleared your system now. you'll be fine. [to thirteen] keep him overnight just to make sure and get the names of all the trials he's been in. [he starts to leave.]
[as he’s closing the door] couldn't even if i cared enough to want to.
not bad. you almost made it the whole day.
the point is to see how everyone reacts. let me go get the rest of the gang.
your wife has a separate bank account in her name only. she's been making weekly cash deposits for about a year now. no withdrawals… yet.
a secret bank account.
because if it wasn't you'd call it the bank account.
you're spending almost $100000 on furniture?
she is hot.
obviously the drugs weren't out of his system.
by themselves no. but three unproven untested drugs? it’s like the mod squad. no one could stop them.
just to short-circuit that discussion people should not be testing drugs because they're desperate. but people won't test drugs unless they're desperate. we need drugs to save children and puppies. ergo we need desperate people. ergo welfare kills sick children.
why don't we call it bisexidrine? [the others stare at him.] clinical trials involve experimental drugs. means they don't have comforting catchy names yet. just random unmemorable trial numbers. [to thirteen] go ahead.
cuckoldisol.
worse. sex can be dismissed as hormonal or emotional. can be easily regretted. money is always a calculated decision.
shocking. discuss.
worldssorestkneesisil. [kutner smiles] cuddy used to have that title by the way.
and it'd be interesting to know which of those interactions was causing the problem. unfortunately we don't have to. we just have to stop the interacting.
stop them all. put him on dialysis. clear out his system.
difference is we know what those risks are. put him on dialysis.
and i am going to be just as right after breakfast up in my office. the only difference is i'm gonna be right in front of other people. which means you're not here to talk about the medicine.
what did she say?
i heard the part about “you can screw with me at work all you want.”want my advice?
good 'cause i have no idea what you should do. i only know what you're going to do. you're gonna —
i said this is not advice. you are going to forgive her for opening that account and you're going to confess everything you've done and then you're gonna beg her to forgive you.
none. which is why i'm not saying you should. but you will.
where are you?
that's like six miles away. how cool are these things?
you have those night vision goggles?
you're lying.
he deserved to know the truth.
you do know that stuff exists even when you can't see it right?
first of all stop saying a truth. there is only one truth.
[leaving the elevator and talking loudly] miserable people save more lives. if your life has meaning your job doesn't have to have meaning. screw-ups are more palatable if you have someone's arms to go cry in.
usually i have more of a fight on that one.
i just said!
[studying papers in front of him] why would you pay for a three-year gym membership and only go twice? [the others stare at him.] sorry. you guys still diagnosing? thought we'd finished hours ago. you remember when we decided it was the unproven unapproved cocktail of drugs he's been downing like… well like a cocktail.
or he'd be worse. [pause] i take it none of you saw trainspotting.
you think it's a coincidence that three new symptoms cropped up as soon as we took him off the drugs?
[fiddling with pill bottle] either the drugs are the answer or the drugs are a coincidence. if it's one we have to find a better way to detox him. if it's two we have to know which symptoms are withdrawal-related before we can formulate a diagnosis. which means we have to find a better way to detox him. [takes vicodin]
hair of the drug that bit him.
that's why we're gonna put him back on the drugs and then wean him off again. just much slower. [the fellows look at foreman.] why are you looking at him?
you heard the boss! go!
taub —
good point. coming clean can cause a lot of damage. alienation divorce.
i was talking about the patient.
divorce was metaphorical.
good thing he's got that girlfriend. if it's kluver-bucy his brain'll melt down he'll try to swallow his own hands and she can take care of him for the rest of his talentless life.
you're right. fact is nothing i said applies. you had no reason to forgive her. therefore no reason to seek forgiveness. no reason to be an idiot.
then again she is handing you a giant gift that you don't think you deserve.
foreman's right. [to taub] go call your wife tell her you're not coming home 'cause you have to give the patient a cranial mr angiogram. then say good night and hang up.
[hands lucas his jacket] you wanna hang this up when you're done?
no you don't.
[getting beer from the refrigerator] well if you hand her that she's not gonna need you anymore.
i don't care if she thinks you're incompetent.
it's worked so far.
i know. that's why your cover is that you want to do her. [takes vicodin]
then what's the point of liking her?
something… personal. something embarrassing. i spend half my life negotiating with that woman. anything i can use to scare her into saying yes.
okay? you're okay with being paid twice to facilitate blackmail?
narrow for you normal for him. if there were problems with the vessels he'd have had symptoms long ago.
like?
i know heart and head start with the same three letters but you gotta read all the way to the end.
been home?
good. do an ep study. find the arrhythmia.
guilt fades quickly. by wednesday you'll be fine.
because… if it ain't broke —
you obviously think it ain't. your marriage is like a broken toaster. bread keeps popping out and you keep calling it toast. which is weird because you've put your bread in a lot of toasters and apparently you don't see any difference. it's kind of fascinating.
good news. the test is working. your heart's freaking out but it's cool that you're still conscious.
have you been dyeing your hair? [he’s inspecting brandon’s temples.]
right. [steps back]
the hair is growing in red.
[to taub] does your theory include any genetic mutations that could cause his hair to change color? either he's lying about dyeing… or just dying.
red hair means it's not kluver-bucy. melanin affects hair color. what affects melanin?
he's turning prematurely crimson?
and make you deaf. next.
explains the irregular heart rhythms.
but not the ginger nut.
it also gives him the likelihood of sudden and unexpected death.
pete best. [the others look at him waiting.] good god! has none of you ever read a history book? the original beatles drummer. a bunch of nerves controls the tempo of the heart. they're all playing in time except one dude can't keep the beat. wrecks the whole thing. so we hire ringo.
probably should have just said that huh?
so he saves a fortune on karaoke machines and deodorant.
if he was he wouldn't need it.
it's irrelevant. [he’s pacing and the other two follow him.]
since it points towards the same disease. intermittence can fit with romano-ward. we still need to do a sympathectomy.
when? when you checked every bottle every can every tube of paint? or when you detoxed him twice?
that's a symptom of trying to cram hospital food down a throat he can barely get air down.
so where you gonna get this old paint? city dump?
if you're wrong he could drop dead from romano-ward at any moment. you okay with that?
you got one.
he's not on the drugs. [he sits down.]
they're hiding under the stairs.
i said stairs not closet. what was the last drug he was on before the drugs he was on when the symptoms started?
antacid.
it makes sense. also i'm looking at the file.
damn. so you didn't get anything.
on the other hand i figured she probably wouldn't figure me as the photoshopping a photo and planting it in an obscure college paper type either.
you took a little trip 150 miles.
there was a girl.
you know people hate people who have theories about people.
would you?
i picked cameron’s pocket down in er. i came up with a doozy.
she's still healthy. this 25-year-old woman on the other hand…
well that's the way women sound when their spouse of 50 years dies. [he goes into his office hanging his cane from the top of the doorframe as he enters.]
yep. fine! our patient who's been known to take a few drinks on non-occasions vomits blood and collapses on a trip to china. chinese surgeons cut out a foot of bowel but the pain is worse now than it was before.
what are you my mom?
are those bags under your eyes? you were up all night. you told her didn't you?
[to the others] told his wife he's been getting some strange. she kicked his adulterous tuchus to the curb.
kutner you're sort of asian right? get it translated.
too high up for a colonoscopy. ct could miss it. ultrasound's fastest. and since i'm fastest with the ultrasound…
i'm not deflecting because i'm avoiding something deep. i'm deflecting because i'm avoiding something shallow. seriously i'm fine. i didn't even like the man.
no meckel’s. [he hands her a box of tissues.] were you there for the rice or the reeducation camps?
like a salmon returning to the stream where it was born. did you become whole again or did you get eaten by bears?
four parents and not one of them taught you to cover your mouth.
i'm just a technician. her doctors will be by later. you can schmooze then.
i'm a technician and a doctor.
no. [he finds a plastic baggie that interests him.]
licorice root.
i threw it to you for a reason. that's what the chinese doctors gave her. it contains glycyrrhizin.
not very effectively. but sars explains the cough causes hypoperfusion which explains the ischemic bowel. it's perfect.
[getting on elevator] okay well so call it ars. start her on ribavirin and interferon.
i'm not. are we done emoting now?
you know you're right. i don't think i can sleep alone tonight. [cuddy produces a syringe.] and you can tell me that that is liquid vicodin.
[he stands unbuckles his jeans and leans on the desk.] you know i usually pay tens of dollars to hear that.
my mom called you?
eulogy from the greek for good word. now if she asked me to deliver a bastardogy i'd be happy to —
she knows when i'm lying.
cuddy drugged me. she… my mom didn't call cuddy. she called you. i knew you couldn't stay away. i knew you loved me too much.
i'm not doing this at all. if there were something to be done i would have done it in the year he spent dying. [he checks his pockets.] you took my vicodin? i'm in pain. [wilson pulls the vicodin bottle from his inside pocket opens it and gives house a pill all without looking at him.] one? so the vicodin is my leash. one'll take the edge off but it won't give me enough relief for an escape back to plainsboro. [he swallows it.]
where's my phone? [wilson ignores him.] it's the team. it's their ring tone. [nothing] forget it. the patient's blood is on your hands.
i'm being held against my will. call the police!
thanks for calling. [he disconnects the phone.] my ring tone for you is dancing queen by abba.
i need to pee. pull over at the next stop. [wilson hands him a plastic bottle. house tosses it over his shoulder into the back seat.] i'll just pee on the floor. [he looks at the floor grins and picks something up.] you bought used floor mats? that is brilliant. [he rolls down the window tosses the mat out and starts to unbuckle his pants.]
cane.
i suppose i could talk about the summer he decided he wasn't speaking to me. two months not one word. anything he wanted to say he typed up and slipped under my bedroom door.
just by being there i’d be lying.
give me my cane i'll go to the damn funeral.
i said i'd go to the funeral. i didn't say when.
you actually keep a flashlight that doesn't need batteries in the trunk? next to the jacket emergency water nail clippers tooth brush space blanket —
no she didn’t. not unless your pet name for her was volvo. [wilson goes back to the trunk and pulls out another wind-up flashlight.] a man who would lie about a gift from a dead girlfriend…
the struggle to resist one's captors is never pointless. vive la résistance!
[shakes head] my father was a punctual man beholden to time. two minutes late for dinner you didn't eat. my mother would never disrespect him by starting the funeral late.
come on forget the keys. call a locksmith. we'll go inside and play guess that smell with the truckers while we're waiting. join me on the dark side.
no i'm not.
he's not my biological father. [wilson looks at him.] i figured it out when i was 12.
i look at the facts. first of all he was deployed on training exercises off okinawa during the time i had to be conceived.
his second toe is longer than his big toe. mine isn't.
i have a distinctive red birthmark on my scalp that matches a certain friend of the family.
uh-oh.
you lost track of your speed? i think that was hitler’s excuse. lost track of the jews. no one held him responsible.
you were protecting me. anybody in their right mind would have ratted me out.
make it fast. i don't want to miss the anal cavity search.
not to me. this is radio. and i want a full play-by-play.
cyst?
wilson's getting arrested. how large? suv sized or mid-range sedan?
i'm obviously joking. if wilson was getting handcuffed on the hood of his car would i be carrying on a differential?
[whistles] is it in the tail or in the head?
[ignoring him] we've got a construction site. a steamroller is plowing —
i need that phone call. i'm a doctor and when someone tries to call you three times it's code for pick up the damn phone before someone dies.
you'd be surprised.
i did.
i took care of it. you must've screwed up somehow.
it's suspended when you flee the state.
you heard the man wilson. you don't have to explain.
he's my father. i have the right to avoid his funeral.
it's a great song. he was out of line.
yeah you yelled politely.
and smashed a ten-foot antique mirror. and set an example to two other patrons who threw shot glasses.
no i was the guy who bailed him out.
it was a boring convention. had to have somebody to drink with.
hey there were 3000 people at that convention. you were the one i thought wasn't boring. that says something.
i got a lawyer. he cut a deal. you didn't call the guy? you have to show up at the arraignment. everybody knows that.
what? he — he's a fugitive from justice. that whole story was lies. he stabbed a man.
forget louisiana. he was driving recklessly through your comatose village. do they put lead in the jelly doughnuts here?
well of course it's not gallstones. who thought it was gallstones?
i also said construction site.
[to wilson] will you just turn around. the thing is two hours over already and that's the third time we passed that colonial with the cross burning out front.
i'm not talking about what caused the cyst. i'm talking about what the cyst caused. everything.
unless it's a multiple cyst with connections to other organs… like a steamroller.
is that your new stripper name?
bubbles is right. go echo. [he hangs up.]
mom how could you delay the funeral?
i don't know. just let the minister or one of his buddies from the corps…
[quietly to wilson] i am not talking we were strangers who shared some geography 30 years ago.
his issue. which i deliberately made not my issue.
[looking around] oh god he's here.
i used different words.
i already told you. he didn't speak to me for a summer.
there's a lot of people here today. including some from the corps. and i notice that every one of them is either my father's rank or higher. and that doesn't surprise me. because if the test of a man is how he treats those he has power over it was a test my father failed. [wilson looks embarrassed. blythe looks worried.] this man you're eager to pay homage to he was incapable of admitting any point of view but his own. he punished failure and he did not accept anything less than —
he loved doing what he did. he saw his work as some kind of… sacred calling. more important than any personal relationship. maybe if he'd been a better father i'd be a better son. but i am what i am because of him for better or for worse. and i just — i just wish —
well he's not gonna miss it.
you really want to do this in front of everybody? you wanna punish me or them?
oh cut the crap. you enjoy what i do. i never had to force you. you like coming along for the ride.
this is about you needing to be prepared for the worst. so you become an oncologist. no surprises there. worst happens all the time. but amber she was young and healthy. her death came out of nowhere.
and you weren't ready. that makes you angry. the world sucks and you didn't have time to brace yourself.
you're scared to death of losing anyone that matters. so you dump the person who matters the most to you!
because no one can take away from you what you no longer have.
admit it you're angry and you're scared of losing me.
admit it.
admit it.
admit it. admit it!
admit it. admit it. admit it. admit it. admit it. admit it. admit it. come on admit it. admit it!
still not boring.
i know you have trouble losing people. in new orleans i saw you carrying this express package around the conference. and you wouldn't let it go but you wouldn't open it. so i peeked at the return address.
divorce attorneys. your first wife had just served you with papers.
what did i say about being boring? [he picks up his phone and starts dialing.]
how'd the bubble test go?
the images aren't grainy.
i've seen pictures of you where you look tall. it's iron overload. creates speckles on the image makes it look grainy. also makes her pancreas fail her blood clot and her intestine —
mri for a better view. and call me back and tell me you're embarrassed because my eyesight is better 500 miles away. i need a phone number.
i'm a doctor in new jersey treating one of your clients. a young woman looking for her biological parents.
what person who is nothing like me are you saying that to?
did the parents look tan? the disease she has is genetic which means they should have it too.
discolored teeth?
right. thanks.
why not?
thank you. [he hangs up and turns to wilson.] differential. say you're a middle-aged chinese woman…
say it.
girl comes to you says that she's your long-lost daughter. why would you be frightened?
she hasn't seen you since she was an infant.
they're peasants.
'83.
maybe the baby doesn't die. maybe the father panics or regrets it. takes the baby to an orphanage. maybe he doesn't tell his wife.
why does attempted murder from 25 years ago suddenly become relevant to her health now?
this is fun isn't it?
let me see the mri.
then let her vomit through the mri. that's what nurses are for. [taub takes the file and leaves.] her parents tried to kill her. i don't know how but i know it caused her to get sick 25 years later trying to lift a buddha. explain. i already had this conversation with wilson — just go with it.
buddha wouldn't make it worse.
makes sense if she's never lifted anything in her life.
[epiphany] anybody have taub’s pager number?
maybe give him a call. if he tosses that switch on the mri she's dead. x-ray her brain.
pins. push them through the soft fontanelle of an infant you skewer the brain and the hair hides the entry wounds. it's the perfect crime.
same thing that changed in the mri. shockingly not all religious leaders are honest. i'm guessing these particular monks are bilking the faithful by pushing a magnet up buddha’s butt. there's another one under the table that'll repel or attract depending on how you shift them. when she picked up that magnet it moved one of the pins deeper into the sympathetic nervous center of her brain. this sent a signal through the nerves to the blood vessels in her small intestine which caused the symptoms in china and in the giant magnet we call an mri. she's lucky. we're all screwed up by our parents. she's got documentation.
is that why you're here? a colleague checking up on a patient?
i'm celebrating. [he hands wilson a sheet of paper from his desk. wilson looks at it then back at house.] my mom hated him too.
it doesn't depress me. doesn't make any difference at all. that's what depresses me.
if you're coming back just because you're attracted to the shine of my neediness… [wilson smiles slightly] i'd be okay with that.
you hungry? [wilson nods. house gets up and they head for the door. house stops.] wilson.
my dad's dead.
(putting up a finger to stop her) eh.
(turning quickly and heading out of his office) not now.
what about me speeding away says to you let's chat?
she’s diabetic.
(approaching wilson’s office) it can wait.
i knew i should've set up a video camera. stay there.
oh my goodness. i played a practical joke on my best friend and he's badly injured.
i wish i had learned this valuable lesson earlier. i was waiting by my window for an hour. why are you late?
(turning and opening the door to leave) it’s my way of saying welcome back. (house leaves. cameron is still waiting in the hallway)
(looking at the file) or the ecstasy you found in her system.
(obviously curious) what does thirteen know about it?
(looking at the file again) at 3:00 am? (cameron shrugs)
(lecherously) oh yeah! penthouse forum meets medical mystery. maybe there is a god. (he heads back to his office)
empty transient sex? (to thirteen) i’ve been waiting for you to spiral out of control ever since you got your huntington’s diagnosis but this is more than i dared hope for.
depends what we're trying to diagnose. it’s how steep of a spiral you're on.
is he in this room? because if he's not i don't care what he thinks. unless he's a she and she was there last night too in which case i care very deeply.
yet you seem fine.
thirteen go stick a needle in your girlfriend's pelvis. and no that one wasn't a metaphor. suck out some marrow. that one was.
i like to watch. (he follows her out the door)
you’ve already handled it. that’s why you need a chaperone. of course i’m a very permissive understanding chaperone. so feel free to ignore me.
you know if you're in the mood to start kissing or groping or showering.
i assume my name came up last night in the form of a moan. you had sex then a seizure. could be a particular position or activity that set it off. (to thirteen) that sounds like a valid medical theory doesn't it?
lights on or off?
light sensitivity.
figured she had more shame than that. did she talk dirty or did you rely on vague hand signals? (house is writing something on a clipboard)
i’m learning so much.
okay score the score. scale of one to ten.
(holding up a piece of paper with a large number 7 written on it) finally got one right. (thirteen looks thoroughly disgusted)
he claimed he had a morning meeting at mickey’s diner. wilson loves mickey’s diner. he has the french toast tower whenever he sets foot in the door. there’s no way he would've come to work wanting more carbs. he lied to me. i need to know why.
i’m worried that he might be a spy.
i’m just not sure if he's working for hirohito or the new england patriots.
i need something to lord over him a lie —
he always moralized.
things always change.
yeah. find out where he was. (house gets up and leaves)
eye issue brain issue now a heart issue. sounds like a real case to me.
you’re just upset… because the whole time she was with you she was thinking of my huge throbbing… diagnostic skills. drugs would explain everything.
that’s when i thought that thirteen was right and was just jerking her around. cardiac arrest means she could be a serious user.
patient’s dad had bypass surgery. means she's a candidate for atherosclerosis. she needs an ultrasound. that was much less convoluted than what you just said.
who could pick a lock?
you’re a disgrace to your stereotype. move over.
no need to pick. (house shows foreman a key and uses it to unlock the door)
never. i had my dick make keys when i hired him to dick up the team.
always imagined she'd have a sex swing in the living room.
don’t have your key.
waste of money.
(pointing with his cane) thirteen had her purse. that’s gotta be the patient's. check it for drugs. i call shotgun on the bedroom.
want me to have you investigated? when did you get so needy?
last night wasn't the first time that thirteen brought home some strange.
no toys. you sleep with the same person over and over that's when you need accessories. first time is plenty exciting on its own. (he takes something from the drawer) unless…
you think an asthma inhaler could be used as a sex toy? (he gets up of the bed and gives the inhaler a squirt)
people interest me. conversations don't.
(to thirteen) brown recluse. found it at your apartment. their venom can cause seizures and heart problems. unless the ultrasound showed anything —
bathroom. nice bidet by the way. very refreshing.
oh. spider’s not the only interesting thing i found. (he pulls the inhaler out of his jacket pocket)
he doesn't. he’s just surprised he didn't know. you withhold things other people would never bother to. the move a little wheeze whatever you thought was in my pocket instead of your inhaler. maybe i should make a return trip to your place.
don’t be ridiculous. that would be inappropriate. it’d be better if a woman gropes her. there’s no sexual tension that way. (thirteen stands to go do the exam)
which you just wasted with that comment about my comments. low potassium means her heart problem was a symptom of a kidney problem. what caused the kidney problem?
not without blood in the urine.
not with normal blood pressure.
if it's rta all she needs is sodium bicarbonate for the acid and surgery to remove the calcifications. ct her kidneys. if you find calcifications we have our diagnosis. (house continues on down the corridor thirteen heads back to spencer’s room)
what’s he doing now?
maybe he was doing something he thinks i’ll mock him for.
just about anything.
i don't think it's just about anything?
maybe he's seeing a shrink.
doesn’t matter if it isn't. wilson doesn't buy his “pizza.” there’s eight units in this building. there’s got to be a pervert like me living in at least one of them.
where’s thirteen?
not here.
her lungs are working but she still can't breathe.
there’s only one way to find out if her airway failed. make it happen again. stick thirteen's carpet cleaner on a treadmill. methacholine challenge. and someone find the carpet. (the team leaves)
and by brother you mean?
wow. same dad.
you’re right.
that’s because you haven't done anything stupid spontaneous or even vaguely interesting since you were 17. and that's just sad. (the elevator door closes)
at least you could've let her finish. she looks terrible.
unless this is a prelude to an actual spanking there's no reason for me to be —
(to cuddy) because she went to a nightclub in her free time? or because she had sex in her free time? patient was undergoing routine surgery for rta. didn’t need thirteen here for that. and i don't need you making my employees punch a clock or pee in a cup. (to thirteen nodding his head toward the door.) let’s go. (thirteen hesitates)
(opening the door) come on. (cuddy looks stunned)
by the way (they stop) the surgery was not routine patient stopped breathing and you missed a differential. you’re fired.
no i just prevented you from getting a drug test. probably saved your career. i’m already taking responsibility for one doctor with a drug habit. (he pops a vicodin)
the slutty party girl is fun till she pukes on your shoes. then she's just a pain in the ass. (he leaves thirteen looking confused)
i haven't sat on this couch for four months. it remembers my cheeks. i miss this.
oh come on. your patients can wait five minutes. get me caught up. come on what did you do? travel? did you get a new hobby? did you meet someone?
great. what does she do? is she… an actress?
i just figured you'd want something a little more… exciting…
how long have you known her?
i asked a question.
and yet.
if you're happy i’m… (he gets up suddenly and disappears out the door leaving wilson looking puzzled)
thank you. my employees can take care of it from here. (he sits down behind his desk) we need to biopsy the cysts.
all you proved is you know how to make an entrance.
who wouldn't have needed saving if thirteen had shown up at the differential in the first place.
or what? you’re gonna quit? go do the biopsy. (taub and kutner leave)
how much clearer do i need to make this? (thirteen looks at house and then clearly upset turns and walks out of his office)
he’s an idiot with a messiah complex. savior to all who need saving. that’s why his first wife had a wooden leg. second wife was canadian. he’s the one who needs to be saved.
the ho's just using him for his money. wait. bad example.
proceed directly to the leg-breaking.
find her find her family find client number nine. just get me something i can use to force her to back off.
why not men? you’re bisexual. if you were just being self-destructive you'd be having random sex with men. better chance of getting assaulted catching a disease. if this were just about getting laid it'd be a lot easier to pick up men. or ugly girls. this woman's hot. which means you like the challenge the conquest. it’s the control that gets you off. and controlling women is as close as you can get to controlling what's gonna happen to you.
instead of getting sweaty with a stranger why don't you try taking it to the next level? play god. (he hands thirteen the file) tell a girl that she's got ten years to live. she has lam. (thirteen looks down at the file)
this is not a test. you’re not getting your job back if you can —
does the word fired have some whole other definition that i’m not aware of? (he turns to face thirteen)
so you like her now that she's dying. what happens if she stops dying?
go. test for everything. (taub kutner and foreman leave) (to thirteen) not you. you’re just a visitor.
she needs a bone marrow transplant.
nothing. but we've got a donor match.
i know she has a blood disorder. could be pnh. she needs a bone marrow transplant. or leukemia. she needs a bone marrow transplant. or thalassemia. she needs a bone marrow —
so we don't radiate her. her marrow's nearly wiped out already. counts almost zero.
you got a better idea? she trusts you. go get her consent.
you’re back.
genius.
well you had no choice. (he closes the door and sits down on the couch) where were you gonna go after fake hooker girlfriend? how did you know he was outside?
you played to your strengths. by which i mean you played to your weaknesses. (house suddenly realizes something) oh my god. you invoked your dead girlfriend's name to sell me. you’re my hero.
it’s $30? did you keep her number?
shame. hungry?
so seriously. where were you the other morning?
then tell me.
(too compliantly) okay.
it’s what we do.
good. you’re in a downward spiral of destruction.
you’re gonna keep spiraling. keep screwing around. slashing away at every person who tries to help until no one tries to help anymore. till you hit bottom. till you're dead. until then… i can use you.
you did good work.
you connected with a diagnosis not with her.
(noticing something) cracks. you’re lips are cracked. (thirteen puts her fingers to her lips) you been using your inhaler lately?
(thinking) did she cry? when you told her that she was gonna die did she cry?
were. there. tears?
chopping an onion releases a mist of syn-propanethial-s-oxide a chemical irritant (house holds the cut onion in front of spencer’s nose while trying not to tear up himself) which causes people to have a very predictable reaction.
it was either this or put on brian’s song. i didn't have time to stop by wilson’s. (house puts down the onion reaches for a tissue and wipes his eyes) she has sjogren's. it attacks the glands that produce tears and saliva. also by the way causes lung cysts and rta.
it’s like you and men. just 'cause you usually don't doesn't mean you can't.
lack of spit makes her mouth a breeding ground for a fungus like candida. (house picks up the cutting board and the onion and moves it aside) your asthma inhaler did the same for you. wiped out your mouth's immune system.
just the opportunistic infection not the underlying condition. another life saved by girl-on-girl action.
methylprednisolone to get the sjogren’s under control. and some artificial tears to maximize the visual impact of this moment. (he holds up his hands as if framing a camera shot. thirteen smiles hesitantly)
oh my god! you guys shop here too? best nipples in princeton.
(taking off his sunglasses) because he ate the donut.
well you're clearly not pregnant so either you're buying this as a gift or this is some kind of weird if you build it they will come moment.
if you're happy i’m —
tell him to switch from tequila to bourbon. worked for me.
well then it's epilepsy. tell him to buy a hockey helmet —
relax. just because you got approved by an adoption agency doesn't mean you'll get approved by the birth mother. you're a single mom. that puts you somewhere below couples acquitted in day care scandals.
what time are you seeing the mom?
i just trashed your social value as a mother and all i got was a little sarcasm. it means you don't feel the need to defend yourself which means you're not worried about getting a kid which means you've already got one.
i'm sure the mom'll be thrilled to hand her crack baby off to a doctor.
no mother's perfectly healthy. she just had to give up the baby in order to continue her work on the human genome.
what they don't confess to is almost always more interesting. this is a mistake.
because you're a control seeking narcissist. which is fine good even in some jobs. but you're not equipped to handle a real kid never mind a factory second. where are you meeting her?
they explained the returns policy right? it's worse than video games.
not without a pre-concussion. pick a number.
cuddy pool. she got the nod. little tweaker's due in 14 days.
it's good news. the great news is she insisted that she's not gonna change her mind which means she's actually thought about changing her mind which means she's not sure she's ready to be a mom which means she's not ready to be a mom which means she's gonna change her mind. the only question is when. $100 buy in. less than seven means the next seven days.
not one of the options.
we have a player.
good thinking. [he adds an “s” in front of kutner’s name.]i say she's gonna meet the mom and bolt. i'm going for the early fold. [he writes “jones” in the first column.] check his home for toxins and his sinuses for thrombosises.
[inspecting the coffee area] which is caused by…
or?
i don't know the answer. which brings us back to — or?
which means?
so we are?
i honestly don't know where this is going. just following the clues.
and?
which we know because?
which proves he never goes anywhere else… [pause] when… [pause] he's… [longer pause]
oh my god you're right.
next time let him keep it. send him home. see where his dreams take him.
you're losing it. that's what happens when you have kids. ceaseless crying and nagging leads to irrational fears. it's impressive that you didn't wait for the actual crying and nagging.
uh-huh. and i'd be an excellent father.
baby barf. maternity ward was handing out free samples.
that's exactly my point. it's not gonna be me and a cup. it's gonna be eight times a day. if you can't handle wearing that stain you can't handle a baby.
i'm a humanitarian.
so sleeping beauty has a jones for snow white.
maybe he just forgot.
fits. cocaine explains the narcolepsy. narcolepsy explains the sleepwalking. whatever is in the cocaine other than the cocaine explains the memory loss.
you can narrow it down in the lab.
so get a sample.
it's exciting.
it's necessary.
looks like this kid thing is really working out for you. all of the shopping none of the stretch marks.
right kid's getting worse. blessing in disguise. although a completely predictable one. you take in strays don't be surprised by the worms.
i didn't say you weren't stubborn. i said you weren't maternal.
you're getting crankier.
is it really worth it? just for the pursuit of unconditional love?
it's a fake thing. there's no unconditional love. it's just unconditional need. don't make this child a victim of your biological clock.
yes! because at least she knows she's not qualified for the job.
no actually i was going for she sneaks her boyfriend in while you're sleeping and he wants to do it on the desk. and at first she says no but she has issues with self-esteem.
i'm paying for it right now. with wisdom.
makes it nutritious.
it is if he's allergic to milk.
how does he like his coffee?
what type of cereal's in the cabinet?
[pushing the button for the elevator] he likes his coffee black. milk's for the kid.
because if he drank the milk he'd know that he's lactose intolerant. ask him then treat him for allergic reaction. if he gets better we all get to go home early. [the elevator doors close leaving thirteen and taub in the lobby.]
so deliver the baby.
so deliver now risk the baby. deliver later risk the mom. it's not your baby yet. it's not your call.
self-worth issues. that's genetic you know. you should deliver now.
are you serious?
the wrong answer. you can give the mom more blood. you can't give the fetus more lungs.
and yet you're here.
see this is what's screwed up here. you're not sure that this is the right call but you are sure that this is what you want to tell her. and that scares you because your motives aren't medical. some part of you doesn't want this baby and that part wants to tell her to kill it.
right. doesn't explain why you changed your sweater.
i need your advice. [he drops a file on the table.]
wow. can you remove spleens with your mind too?
why the hell haven't you come to talk to me about cuddy? i've been doing all sorts of insane stuff.
that's exactly my point.
she's sleeping with the math teacher to get a diploma.
that's the problem. she gets to have a relationship with a kid but she can't handle one with an adult. so she's gonna kill it.
decisions are never made in a vacuum. [he takes back the patient file.]
why do you think i did that?
guy's bleeding out of his pores. what does that tell us? other than that you don't want to play basketball against him and he's dying?
so we have four reasons for leukemia four reasons against.
yeah if we had one reason for anything else. go do a bone marrow biopsy.
got him on dialysis?
too bad. it would've been nice to have more than an hour or two to solve this thing.
he have tiny testes?
his skin's darker not lighter. as much fun as 20 questions tends to be he's blowing blood out of every orifice you think it just might be vascular?
if i had said it might be vitas gerular would you have said vitas gerulaitis? test him for vasculitis angio and blood.
test the daughter.
small kidney. it just means he won't pee as much. great for road trips.
so get it.
got a minute? [cuddy and becca both turn to see him leaning into the or.]
better question is why is she here? you're an administrator. administrate. i have a patient's daughter needs a guardian ad litem.
tests are inconclusive. but either way he's gonna need —
this doesn't need you. i do.
later's too late.
mazel tov. now it's time to say those magic words you'll be telling her for the rest of her life “mommy's gotta go to work.”
[pacing by the window] damn it. i was hoping you weren't going to ask her that. of course she knows. can you just sign the paperwork?
and if you don't do it daddy will die.
sorry. daddy's perfectly healthy. but we want you to give him a kidney anyway because it'd be cool if he had three.
no.
i'm saying i can't. [he leans over to peer into samantha’s eyes.] whatever he has she has too. she's sleepwalking.
when your remote has a dead battery you don't replace it with another dead battery. whatever's killing the dad's kidneys is gonna kill the kid's too.
call foreman. get to work.
i need a genetic disease.
symptoms are kidney failure bleeding and insomnia.
it's not over yet. everyone's happy until they unwrap that pretty present and find they got a wall clock in the shape of africa.
[leaving] nope!
good news. i know what you have and you're both gonna be fine.
yes and no.
yeah.
no idea. they might be.
to make them happy.
technically to see if they can be happy. we should've seen a grin a twinkle a sigh of relief something.
they're anhedonic incapable of experiencing pleasure. something's bushwhacked their dopamine receptors.
being bummed doesn't explain their lack of friends or their indifference to each other.
really? is that why you do drugs? because you're happy? most people do 'em because they want to be happy. his subconscious craved it needed it.
sure in white folk.
they're liars. [to jerry] what's your name?
your real name. hosarian? herzog? h'ali-baba?
you and your daughter have familial mediterranean fever. it's a genetic disease contracted by people of mediterranean descent. sephardic jews armenians arabs. causes anhedonia seizures kidney failure even lactose intolerance. symptoms are set off by age and stress. kid couldn't get happy but she could get stressed by daddy dying.
treatment tends to be hit and miss once you reach the sweating blood stage. start them on colchicine and melphalan. [he starts to leave.]
boy sure hope i'm right. [he leaves.]
[quietly] there's more than one baby in the sea. the world is full of teenage boys riding bareback.
you're quitting. just like you quit ivf.
there you just did it again. [she smiles humorlessly.] it's too bad. you would've made a great mother.
[whispers] i don't know.
[whispers] good night.
so it's a bleed clot tumor metabolic or infection. stick him in a ct.
i'm assuming he has a giant head.
fun.
anybody can hate humanity after getting shot. takes a big man to hate it beforehand.
see? perfectly reasonable explanation. she's definitely not here trying to work her way back on the team and steal your job or anything.
(taking a file from cuddy) what's this?
forget it.
there's a reason that we've evolved a feeling of awkwardness. it tells us not to talk about things.
you're welcome. any time you want to stop kissing i'm there for you.
i kinda hit that last night so now she's all on my jock.
what part of olivine pyroxene and amphibole don't you understand?
the formster and the camster. kickin' it old school. (to taub) thank god she's not trying to steal your job. (to the team) go do it. and search the home for toxins.
go away.
she's fine. why would it take anyone more than a few hours to get over misplacing a baby?
kinda hit that. so she's all on my jock.
(looking at wilson) huh. everyone else thought i was kidding.
got a chart laid out with all the bases. i'll take you through it.
what can i do? i'm going to ignore her for the rest of my life. this mosquito bite kept me awake.
so now i have two reasons to ignore her. (still scratching) it was just a kiss.
yes. those large things in her bra.
yeah i fiendishly concealed it within the phrase i hit that.
finally you said something useful. if i actually break the skin it'll let the poison out.
sorry. i get better reception when you're not here.
(into the phone) what do you got?
and since you're not breathing hard i assume you're not holding cameron aloft in triumph. which means no seizures.
hey speaking of breathing hard cameron you engaged to chase yet?
after six years?
sleep deprivation would take too long. you living together?
and cloud the diagnosis with side effects. his place or yours?
interesting.
and no matter what the answer it would've been interesting. no engagement. commitment issues. his place control issues. not sure whose but interesting.
where was the patient when he had his first seizure?
getting close to the outdoors spooked him raised his bp. use that fear. bring him outside.
okay. so bring the outside to him.
floors (tapping the floor with his cane) genuine wood.
they overheard me announce the half price bank foreclosure in the er waiting room. where's everybody?
because they don't need to be here. neither do you. and yet you are.
(to his tour group) this way.
original? they were here before the house. (they enter stewart’s bedroom) the shut-in's also original. come on. don't be shy.
easy for you to say. you're not gonna be making some serious capital gains.
and leaving him undiagnosed is what altruistic? procedure worked. he's seizing. what do you see?
it's something.
see? it's something.
blockage explains the pain. what explains the blockage plus seizures?
wouldn't. pain changes things.
he can chase me out once he's done doubling up in agony.
(to stewart) whatever your big problem is it's caused a complication we call colon fos. fo full of. since we're in mixed company s is stool. nothing's coming out. so the pain's gonna get worse and worse. we need to stick a pooper scooper in you. we also need to take a look at your bowel.
uh-huh and if the crazy fairy were here she could grant them.
except now you're feeling pain inside.
and if it doesn't work? that blockage will rupture your intestines spew sewage throughout your body. whatever you're scared of out there aren't you more scared of death?
if you don't mind floppy hair and an annoying accent i know a surgeon who will operate in your home.
he's not gonna do surgery in some crazy dude's house.
what i said was that chase would put him under at the house we'd take him to the hospital open him up do our thing then slip him back into his room for the post-op without him ever finding out that we tricked him. some of that was implied.
he'll be asleep.
why are you siding with him? (he puts his hand on his chin as if genuinely asking a question) oh yeah you're that girl who likes broken people because her husband died. and since chase isn’t all that broken —
i was risking my life to avoid becoming a cripple. he's doing it to avoid sunlight and fresh air.
because she's right. i don't care where he gets the post-op just that he gets it. keep him here.
yes. we don't need to talk.
(house looks down at his bandaged hand) that's weird. i usually don't get the stigmata until easter.
he'll soon be on his way back. he's sick. he'll crash. he'll lose consciousness. (house continues to scratch his bug bite) i'll declare an emergency bring him back in.
bad lovin' gone bad.
because ignoring her is a lot easier. convince the patient to let us back in again. see if you can clear his blockage with lactulose. if this thing kills him before we can diagnose it won't be fun anymore.
if the confederacy had mosquitoes we'd all have southern accents and i'd be paying foreman less.
you understand that different implies difference. she's tossed me a million times before.
how is that scary? it's rational. emotionally mature people who work together should not date. guaranteed breakup. guaranteed ugliness.
why does this matter so much to you? cuddy and i are fine. the only person getting worked up here is you.
are you familiar with the adverb vicariously?”
you did ask her out. last year. whatever happened there?
wrong. you were interested. but amber grabbed your genitals first. but now you're single and that makes you miserable because you think it's too soon for another relationship. so you're gonna make me miserable. please get a girlfriend or a life or something. for me.
better or worse?
well then one of us wasn’t paying attention because i thought that surgery thing was just a trick.
we still need trapper john.
i can't understand a word he says.
taub. doing anything later?
(to the lawyer) hey wanna see if your client's actually made of money?
(looking into the microscope) mucosa's pink. flattened villi.
explains the seizure and the stomach pain.
hey wait. the gas —
(to the lawyer) that always happens during surgery. just the gas build up in the blockage. nothing to sue about. (to the team) treat him for the burns. put him on antibiotics for the whipple’s. he'll be fine.
not fast enough. not accurate enough. (he stops tossing the ball) force-feed him wheat then do an endoscopy as it hits his duodenum. see if there's an allergic reaction.
foreman listen to that little voice in your head that's coming from the telephone. (speaking directly into his cell phone on the desk) force-feed him.
hey you remember that idea that cameron had about trying to torture the patient into admitting himself?
wow. everyone's got all these great ideas today. (pause) so you're thinking patient won't leave because leaving causes pain so we gotta make staying more painful. that actually makes sense.
he's on morphine now. pretty soon he'll be on less-phine. 'cause when you restock you'll actually be giving cameron iv bags of saline.
same reason you did the surgery.
no. it was because your marriage is falling apart. when you confess adultery things tend to go bad. when one part of your life does a titanic you make a life raft out of whatever's left which makes your job more significant which is why you did the surgery why you pulled an all-nighter and why you'll do this.
(looking back at taub) right. that's what we'll tell everyone.
(looking more curious than alarmed) huh.
buzzzzzzz.
rick ocasek would kill me if i — oh you mean cuddy.
yeah. i came here to have you lecture me on cuddy not because there's a killer mosquito chasing me around my apartment.
ah she's bugging me. poetic.
(pointing to his hand) have you seen this bite?
i am not imagining things.
she's my boss.
i am not rationalizing. i'm better off alone. also you seen her ass recently?
oh come on.
at 3:00 in the morning? when do regular people sleep?
is he in enough pain to come in yet?
inconclusive.
i missed you. endoscopy?
well then do it again.
no pulse. (pulling his phone from his pocket) start cpr.
pizza. you like anchovies? i'm calling the lawyer. (house tucks his phone under his chin and starts cpr) genuine emergency. he'll okay admission.
exactly. (to the lawyer) hi. sorry to wake you. your introvert is having a heart attack.
(still talking to the lawyer) he can survive 15 minutes on oxygen and cpr. we can get him to the hospital in five. (to cameron) lawyer says yes. continue cpr.
2123 holden green. patient with pea.
wait!
hey cameron how would you like your old job back? i'm asking 'cause it’s the only way i can fire you.
we'd have seen it on the abdomen. it has to be a poison.
how clean?
(to stewart) how often do you wash your tub?
bleach and ammonia?
you know how kids play toy soldiers in the bath? he likes to re-enact the battle of ypres three times a week with real gas.
put him on parenteral steroids and sodium bicarbonate.
well maybe the poison hasn’t completely shot his heart. and you won't have to feel guilty for the rest of your life.
clubbing. good or bad?
means we were too late with the treatment. tell the lawyer he’s off the clock. we're done.
call taub. tell him to pick up some morphine. (he sits up) there's no need for the patient to be in pain.
no. he's on saline.
i love you. when you reach puberty give me — (house has his epiphany) his abdominal pain. that was on morphine?
i was right. he is being poisoned.
what's this density on his hip?
think less boney.
explains the constipation the nerves the seizures. hold him down.
(to stewart) you're not gonna feel a thing… except excruciating pain.
the mugger used hollow points. they exploded and left fragments. your doctors missed a couple hiding behind your hipbone. it's no biggie. except years later they started to dissolve and then biggie you started to dissolve.
no. lead wouldn't have started to disintegrate till years after.
he's lying.
about everything. about his life. he doesn't even think he's happy here. he's miserable.
yeah? well then why did taub find rose petals in your entry hallway? struck me as a little weird. thought it might be medically relevant. but it actually just told me that you were pathetic. the day you crashed in your entryway… was your girlfriend’s birthday. (he picks up a framed photograph) you weren't there for the mail. you were trying to go lay flowers on her grave. (house holds up the photo which is obviously a picture of stewart and his girlfriend)
yeah he's got ptsd. yeah he's agoraphobic. he's also a coward. you want to change your life do something. don't believe your own rationalizations. don't lock yourself up and pretend you're happy.
don't wanna hear it.
yeah. (he stops and pulls his vicodin bottle from his pocket)
whichever one means you almost had me convinced it was a good idea.
nothing to say?
no you don't. or no you don't don't?
is this some kind of reverse — ?
thank god some of those offshore sweat shop jobs are coming back to america. (he hangs his coat on the coatrack)
in a factory? either an olympic gymnast who busted her leg a child star who blew all her sequel money on drugs or she's just a lying runaway.
(preparing his coffee) on the one hand kutner’s right. maybe she's a sweet young thing not a screw-up lying through her teeth. on the two hand a pregnancy test only takes five minutes and we no longer kill rabbits. so in conclusion shut up do the tests. what else?
didn't we just have this conversation? kutner trusts her. someone else doesn't. so in conclusion shut up. check her home and work for toxins or drugs. kutner and foreman do an echo. find the extent of the heart damage.
yes… but he'll be very lonely. so i have to ask why?
good for your career. great for your street cred. what's in it for me?
and if there's an emergency with annie should she wait until you finish grooming lab rats?
(definitively and dismissisvely) no. (foreman does not move) oh do you want a reason? clinical trials take time. your time is my time. (foreman walks out)
would that be the echo that foreman chose not to run with you after i dashed his new drug discovery dreams?
i know. no structural heart damage.
it's the heart.
not all heart damage has to be structural. drugs could have caused intermittent tachycardia. (he gets up)
steroids could cause an irregular heartbeat making her current one irregular-er-er. foreman. start her on beta-blockers. (foreman looks angry) the rest of you do anything that isn't starting her on beta-blockers.
(popping the vicodin) yeah we do. nice job foreman.
but your decision to stick it to the man clearly inspired oliver twist. (he picks up a water bottle from the table and takes a drink)
you treated her based on empathetic orphan syndrome and almost killed her in the process.
so what causes lung issues and delirium? and is not based on wishful thinking that she's safe and happy?
silent and unhappy is better than vocal and unhelpful. if you'd run the echo that you didn't run before giving her the beta-blockers that you didn't give her — if you'd listened to what kutner just said you'd know it's not a heart problem.
foreman give her ergonovine to cause vasospasms and run an fmri to see which artery's dancing. and when i say foreman i mean… foreman. i want his signature on the paperwork. i want videotape. (house moves toward his office and points to foreman with his cane) i want photographs of him with the patient on today's newspaper.
only relevant if it can cause pulmonary edema and delirium.
is she a psych patient?
thank goodness one of you doesn't have a heart. maybe if we all stopped wringing our hands we could solve this thing and let her live to have a few more nightmares.
(leaning forward in his chair and placing his cane across his lap) yesterday you were all bff. now you think she's pathological.
that's it.
her whole life's a mess. what rhymes with mess?
yeah she's drowning in her own lungs and she's delirious. she's a picture of emotional health. severe emotional stress can lead to asymmetric function of the midbrain. explains the delirium. interruption of the brain-heart coupling could cause pulmonary edema.
yes. i agree. it does explain everything. thirteen load her up on diazepam. foreman make sure she does it. (house gets up) thirteen make sure he makes sure.
i went to cuddy's house. but i didn't go in. went home without ringing either her metaphorical or actual bell.
you're processing.
huh means processing.
no insights? no opinions? (wilson does not respond) you're disappointed.
seriously? 'cause last week you could. last year you could. seems to come pretty easy to you.
i want you to stop thinking that acting inscrutable makes you anything other than annoying.
(calling loudly as wilson leaves) holding things in can give you cancer!
(standing his cane across his shoulders his back to the team) so what messes with her lungs her mental status and runs her blood through a wood chipper?
what does her furniture look like? (he turns to face the team) said it was homemade. old boxes what?
the wood have little dents or holes?
holes means that it was pressure-treated. sawing or burning it releases arsenic into the air into her lungs.
because it found a cloak of invisibility hiding —
she was cured then she wasn't.
put the arsenic back.
just because we call something a poison doesn't mean it's bad for you.
but since she's still dying the arsenic obviously wasn't killing her. and since she's now getting worse the arsenic was obviously fighting the killer. it's a hero. we should be organizing a parade. (he moves around to stand behind his desk)
so put the arsenic back. (he pops a vicodin)
biopsy a lesion confirm that she's dying then load her up with arsenic. keep her alive till you can convince her that rapist marrow and rapist-enabling marrow work just as well as the unleaded stuff.
this about the case you didn't want me to know about?
foreman. (foreman looks puzzled) you didn't flinch when you found out about a sixteen-year-old who could be dying in the next few days. means you're here about someone even younger dying even faster.
(ignoring the file and brushing by foreman) but he has you. (house heads out the door)
pot calling a kettle a pot?
wanted something all your own? now you got it.
your disengagement won't work.
you think that when you tell me what i should do my instincts are to push back so that by not telling me what you think i should do i'll do what you think i should do.
disengagement is neither artful nor effective.
right.
no you're not. you are designed to have opinions and to force them on people.
(interrupting loudly from his office) trying to sleep here!
(picking up his backpack) run the donor banks. i'm going home. (he slings the backpack over his shoulder)
(approaching the doorway) i assume she's already said no to that idea or there'd be no need to screw up your courage before saying it.
guess i'm the only one who cares about patient rights.
our job is to find out what's killing patients not treat them for chronic idiocy. (he turns back to his office)
(picking his coat up off the chair) and since we can't cure that i’m going home. (he moves toward his office door)
(turning back and looking at thirteen) your point being?
so treat her.
so don't treat her.
so treat her.
it's my turn now right?
well when you decide get back to me.
not scared enough. tell her the thing about emotional reactions is they're definitionally irrational. or stupid. might wanna phrase that in your own words.
that's your rational explanation of her emotional response.
that makes sense. how long did it take her to come up with that?
that doesn't make sense.
emotional is immediate. she went to rational first. means there was no emotional to process.
wouldn't be her first.
so… what's worse than rape?
hi i'm dr. house. (he stands to face her at the bottom of her bed) what did you do?
something happened but it wasn't rape.
you're scared and stubborn and you don't like people feeling sorry for you. why not?
but you know you're not. (he moves to the side of the bed until he is standing right over her) you need people to see how independent you are how well you're coping. so they won't see the lost hurt little girl. (he leans down and is now right in her face) because that's not what you see. you see someone who did something terrible… who deserves to suffer. who doesn't deserve to live. (pause) what did you do?
eventually we'll find your parents… if only to deliver the body.
(frustrated) you're an idiot. you'd rather die than face your parents because what you broke their faberge egg?
(quietly now) if you don't take your parents' bone marrow… you'll be killing their other child. if they don't hate you now they will then.
sure you do. you want someone to tell you it was just an accident. that it's not that bad well it is that bad. and you know it. there's nothing you can do to change that. (pause) but there is one thing you can do to not make it worse.
if you're here to celebrate the kid's bone marrow transplant working you missed cake.
already had this conversation.
okay.
can i give my reasons later… or never?
three days ago you asked me. now you told me. (he grabs his backpack and cane and heads toward the office door) can't say no if it's not a question.
he speaks.
i almost cost a four-year-old his life.
did i? (he looks at wilson)
i sound clever.
your little game didn't work. i'm not foreman and you're not me.
nope.
good to know.
well she's either not here or she's under the desk. either way you're gonna have to wait outside until i'm finished.
yes which is why i need you to get out and leave me alone. [he grabs a pack of post-its from the desktop.]
nice try. love to help.
[calmly] you wanted to see doctor —
[conversationally] what seems to be the problem?
[not moving and not looking away from the gun] no we're not.
that's a bathroom you're barricading. it might come in handy especially since you've cleverly decided to take a bunch of sick people hostage.
[standing very slowly] you really think that reenacting dog day afternoon is the best way to get diagnosed? i'm sure you've been waiting for hours in an uncomfortable chair but you should watch the movie all the way through.
and all that was missing was the threat of violence. [he starts slowly approaching jason.]
that's a cool constellation of symptoms. it could be something minor. at least compared to life in prison which is what you seem to prefer to seeing 16 more specialists.
no need. symptoms — those are the things you keep whining about. tests — negative or you wouldn't be here. history — shy quiet kid. kept to himself. collected comic books and missing children.
next time pack some heat and maybe we'll look into it.
if you ask me keeping an open line of communication is the best way to resolve conflict. [jason puts the phone on the chair next to him.] what kind of breathing problems?
so you figured your wife left you because you couldn't breathe right? me i rarely kidnap someone unless i've got a serious health problem. since you're not almost dead it means you're armed because you're blaming something other than your health on your health.
oh. got a match?
because i'd rather not stand here while you try and negotiate a hostage trade for an incentive spirometer.
stay out of the desk! cuddy doesn't smoke. but he does. [gestures toward mitch]
right. you just brush your teeth with coffee grounds.
you figure that two people snuck weapons into the clinic today?
hold it out as far as you can. try to blow it out. [jason wheezes as he blows. the bic flickers but doesn’t go out. the second time it doesn’t even flicker.] decreased lung volume. heart palpitations fatigue stomach pain. an intermittent rash — could be 100 things. if you add on that final symptom it can only be pulmonary scleroderma.
last one is the 16 doctors who missed it. simple alkylating agent case solved. see you on visitor's day.
crime scene!
about to be. assuming he's not lying. but he seems like a pretty straight arrow to me. [he winks broadly at jason who pushes the speakerphone button. house speaks louder and hands the receiver to jason.] i'm gonna need some propofol to prove that it's pulmonary scleroderma. then we all get to go home.
have one of the guards bring it in.
she might be armed. i'd have her deliver it shirtless.
who is it?
guys with even bigger guns?
roll up your sleeve.
you're the only one who needs it.
again had your brilliant plan included a roomful of hostages that don't have fetuses bacterial and fungal infections leaving their immune systems too weak to deal with the metabolic strain or are already on pain killers that have fatal interactions…
she's sick. [to larry] you are a very large creep. take off your shirt. [he injects larry who grunts.] satisfied?
[to jason] roll up your sleeve.
i thought i had a little more time with a guy that size. [jason primes the gun and points it at house.] you're not gonna do anything. you still need me.
what are you doing? he didn't do anything.
[to jason] it's for you.
joe's bar and grill.
[turning on the speakerphone and putting the phone on the desk] what causes low lung volume heart palpitations fatigue stomach pain insomnia and a rash?
dr. robert chase. on the off chance you have some brilliant escape plan and are the vengeful type.
seriously? you're walking out?
[taking a picture off the wall and gesturing to oliver] throw me that marker will you? [he does.]
[writing on cuddy’s wall] next!
first rule of triage: guys with guns go first. next!
it's not my wall. you're gonna get some special deliveries. foreman we're gonna draw blood. run tests for infection and cancer. cameron comb through his medical records. see if any of his past 900 medications could have screwed up his heart. taub and kutner go to his apartment check for neurotoxins.
giving out your address. clearly you're not going back there. means you do have an end game.
got one lower limb flesh wound another guy unconscious. unfortunately not the guy we hoped. we're gonna need someone to deliver his blood. [jason disconnects the call.] it's gonna be hard to play doctor —
interesting. anybody else hear those guys outside? [pause] anybody? he's got hyperacusis.
it means we have a favorite. it's nerve related.
puff out your cheeks. come on. [house demonstrates and jason imitates him.] now big mug shot smile.
seventh nerve palsy. plus intermittent rashes. plus migraines. it's post-herpetic neuralgia.
i'm not judging here. this thing is just as likely to be caused by chicken pox.
there is a test. it's dangerous and painful while the treatment is safe and painless. but you make a good point. you need proof now. i'll order up the test. if you have neuralgia you won't feel it going in.
win-win.
capsaicin. 200 micrograms.
first — don't use his name so much. it doesn't sound reassuring it just sounds creepy. second — come on he's not gonna shoot the one person he trusts to bring in his medication. he's gonna shoot the hostages if she doesn't bring it in.
[talking through the cap of the syringe which is in his mouth] anybody here got a long-standing case of neuralgia that's killed their nerves so this won't hurt at all?
you're looking to be the hero?
the guy's got a gun. i think that covers the parental consent issue.
you have to. it's the rules.
this is a level of risk taking beyond anonymous girl-on-girl action.
with a degenerative drug-unfriendly illness.
this is a genetic flaw. this is your huntington’s speaking. this is you waving a white flag at the world.
wow! i would have laid money you had herpes. [to jason] your turn. so why are we here? we've ruled out immediate risk of death lost love. that just leaves… work? you're defined by your work. but you kept seeing doctors kept missing time. couldn't focus. [injects him] maybe you made a huge mistake… got fired.
i know. i'm asking why.
so either his heart's on the fritz or he's got cancer.
or she's just ugly.
you can't be sure what —
i am going to try to strangle you faster than you can pull a trigger.
it's racing. 160.
shut up! all of you. [he listens to jason’s heart with the stethoscope then removes it and reaches for jason’s neck again.]
carotid massage… gotta slow your heart. it's 200.
uh-uh. whole point of those things is to make your muscles contract. they don't discriminate against trigger fingers.
[equally loud] don't!
threatening to shoot the guy who's diagnosing you makes a lot of sense. actually doing it not so much.
if we don't know what kind of heart rhythm it is —
if she doesn't come back you've got plenty of other people you can shoot.
she's gonna go.
she should go.
but not her.
if you don't think your life is worth more than someone else's sign your donor card and kill yourself.
adenosine slows the heart. which is fine if it's beating fast like yours. not fine if it's normal like hers. following the math on this?
the martyr's heart is beating dangerously slow. are we good to go? [he injects jason while regina tends to thirteen.] [house feels for jason’s pulse.] your heart's back to normal. no tachycardia. no sign of a heart defect at all. [pause] but you're sweating.
on one side of your face but not the other.
a tumor is pressing on your sympathetic nerves. you have lung cancer.
so's her iq. help her up. get her heart going faster. [he looks at oliver who goes over to help.]
of course you do!
it's gotta be a pancoast tumor. patient's got dyspnea seventh-nerve palsy. he's sweating on one side of his face.
take your time. it's not like i've got a gun to my head.
[to jason] spit on the floor.
if i do it i can't tell cuddy that it was medically necessary. i'm gonna ask you to piss on her chair next. [jason tries to spit. nothing comes out. he coughs.] dry mouth. his parotid glands aren't working.
feel that. right there.
you just did it.
good idea. oh damn. i left my ct machine in my other pants.
so… what made you snap? hmos?
nah you saw 16 doctors. how bad could they have been?
humiliation? doctors treating you like a piece of meat? too many fingers and tubes up your holes. you hate doctors. you want to take back control. if so i apologize for the fact that you are a piece of meat.
that's not all. curiosity's not enough. there's gotta be a deeper reason.
never shot anyone.
yeah.
what's this?
[to oliver] show him.
now unless you think we pre-arranged that just in case we were ever held hostage by a guy who needs a ct we're not lying. so you have two choices. you can give me the gun and get your answer. or you can shoot me.
[looking back at oliver] why are you still here?
there isn't one. i don't know what you have.
he overpowered me and got the gun back. [he hangs up.]
i'm arrogant. you're the coward. you're terrified of death. you just want to cheat it by making it come sooner. gives you the illusion of control.
sorry. we might need you. [the phone starts ringing again. house picks it up and slams down the receiver.] how do they expect me to think?
he's quick for a sick guy. dyspnea anemia seventh-nerve palsy tachycardia. [he puts his cell phone on speaker and drops it on the counter.] long passes. anything. go.
you ever been to cameroon or on the ogowe river? next.
[getting up and approaching jason] whoa whoa whoa… we have a new symptom. he is turning his head favoring his left ear. means he's partially deaf in the right.
we'll keep that between us till you talk to your lawyer. [he picks up the wall phone and pushes the intercom and speakerphone buttons. he speaks to bowman] i need dexamethasone and enough time to provoke a respiratory reaction and confirm cushing’s syndrome.
if you have cushing’s this will slow your breathing.
those were not the terms.
why would i do that? i gave you back the gun!
she has huntington’s. if these drugs are real it could screw up her liver.
don't do —
killing her is your chance to get personal?
if she were clinging to hope she wouldn't be standing in line waiting for you to order up more drugs. [he puts on a stethoscope and goes to jason.] take a deep breath.
[removing the stethoscope] i can't decide which is riskier taking crazy risks or taking advice on crazy risks from a crazed risk-taker. [he goes to thirteen and feels for her pulse.] heart's racing. fever. [he lays her down on the ct bed and turns to jason.] and your breathing's unchanged.
means i was wrong. her kidneys are shutting down because of the meds you made her take.
we have to get her out of here. [he opens his cell phone.] the dexamethasone is making thirteen's kidneys fail but not the patient's — why?
[to jason] i need to slap you. for diagnostic purposes. [jason points the gun at him.] seriously. if i was jerking you around i'd say i needed to kick you in the groin. [jason lowers the gun and house slaps him across the face.] that twitch is chvostek's sign. don't ask me how chvostek discovered it. [into the phone] he has calcium deficiency. drugs that block calcium tend to shield against kidney damage.
those drugs have been protecting his kidneys for years. he has something that has a long incubation period. something that should have wrecked his kidneys. something that explains breathing problems heart problems jumpy nerves and weak blood.
would make perfect sense if our patient was an arabian bedouin.
except that if you read the history you'd know that our patient has never been to a tropical climate!
you idiot.
well not to the supreme court. but it's warm enough for germs. [he closes his cell phone and walks over to the wall phone.] you keep blaming doctors when you can't even give a halfway decent history.
it will be as soon as you get us three grams of ceftazidime.
[disconnecting the call] why are you getting rid of me?
you're gonna give her the meds.
come on give 'em to me instead.
[angrily]her kidneys are failing. you give her those drugs she'll be dead by the time they get the cuffs on you.
your obsession is gonna kill her!
[calmer now] it is pointless to give her those drugs. even if they are screwing with you this is your last diagnosis.
shut up. i'm not leaving.
why are you still alive?
test confirmed melioidosis. easy to miss on a stain. [he retrieves his cane.] scans and x-rays vary widely.
if he hadn't done what he did he'd be dead. good thing you enabled my every medical move. [he moves to stand closer to her.]
i don't know. let's try it again without me.
if you're suggesting that you screwed up because of a non-relationship with me i don't know how i can help you. 'cause the only change you can make from a non-relationship is…
god no. just trying to follow your logic.
democrats' health care plan?
no point. i'm in an elevator. can't run away.
that's just mean. [they get off the elevator and walk down the hall side by side.] why are we still together?
pronoun confusion. starts kicking in once you pass child-bearing age.
i think the patient holding the gun to my head was actually the one directly responsible.
where's foreman and thirteen?
other than throwing off the feng shui with her ass that faces all eight sides of the bagua at once?
i'm well aware. [to kutner and taub] normal ct means that her lung problem has the distinction of having nothing to do with her lungs.
[looking at the picture] wow. muscles and curves. my penis is so confused.
and you actually believe what you see on tv. go run the labs.
can someone please stop backseat differentialating?
nice try. except eia doesn't account for the elevated bp if you'd read the file. [to taub and kutner] come on. before the shrieking harpy melts my brain.
i know.
i know. you know. she can't know.
get creative. [he fakes giving taub emmy’s photo. when he reaches for it house gives it to kutner.]
you wanna work in here? fine. me too. we'll split the desk 50-50. that side's yours. this side's mine.
so that's your strategy. taking the high road. it's not gonna work.
well she's consistent. the lung problems had nothing to do with her lungs. a heart problem that has nothing to do with her heart. something is strangling her system.
find it cut it out.
subtle. no way you geniuses could've spotted this.
i could but that would defeat the purpose of doing it here. where are the smart guys?
i said yes to this?
forget the bypass. treat her like a fat girl.
not on the outside. but on the inside she's still tons of fun.
ten points for doing what i said. minus ten points for doing it badly. if this was diabetes-induced nerve damage it would've kicked in years ago. [turns to his desk. cuddy is still on the phone. loudly] have you seen my balls?
my balls. have you seen my balls? giant one and the red one.
of course it is. i try to make you miserable to make you leave. you deny that it's making you miserable. you try to make me miserable so i’ll stop making you miserable. and eventually you will leave citing reasons that have nothing to do with misery.
step one complete.
apnea would've disappeared when she shrank.
she been snoring?
did she mention feeling tired after a full night's sleep?
[staring at the photo] this isn't apnea. and this is a stupid room to be doing a ddx in.
cliff notes. gastric bypass only makes her skinny on the outside. on the inside we have heart and lung issues not caused by heart and lung issues.
let the dying girl finish.
tssss. dr. thirteen has the floor.
very stupid. her potassium's fine.
very not stupid. bacteria in the bowels means there's bacteria in the poop. get some and test it.
but her wrong idea led to his right one. it was vital screwing.
[standing behind them unnoticed] what happened? he call foreman clean and articulate again? it is surprising.
what's the poop?
what are we looking for?
i'm doing my famous socrates impression. think i really nailed the accent.
and what does fat do in water? [he’s at the sink with the tap turned on.]
what else floats in water?
looks like i was wrong to dismiss apnea. you guys can stay up all night gloating in the sleep lab. [he drops the glove on the bucket and leaves.]
how did she manage to sneak out for a run?
you two get the results of the sleep apnea test or did those need to use the bathroom too?
cunning plan. you do realize it’s gonna stink for hours — on both sides.
or both.
way to know where your bread is buttered sister. [raising his hand for a high five] up high!
or a million other things. we're gonna stay in the dark until we can figure out if her electrical problem is in her power station or in the high-tension wires. [they stare at him.] power station's the brain. wires are the nerves. go run an ncv test.
i had the weirdest dream. you guys did the test in a reasonable amount of time and came back here before i had time to fall asleep. [winces] you guys still smell that?
or… [sean connery imitation] she sends one of yours to the hospital send one of hers to the morgue. it's not myasthenia gravis. her breathing's improving and the weakness is in her extremities.
all that is needed for evil to succeed is for good men to do nothing. [he hands taub his cane and picks up a sledge hammer.]
true. [he limps into the bathroom.] could also be any kind of heavy metal toxicity. psp or arsenic from eating too much seafood. cadmium from bad bottled water. lead or nickel from canned fruits or natural grains.
it is now. lucky for us we can treat all those toxins with the same thing: chelation.
that rules out toxins. so what else can go wrong when the hindenburg deflates?
obviously because it would be stupid to do this in an office with no furniture. cuddy… overreacted to my overreaction.
this started in the lungs not the heart. and why are you leaning on a 45-degree angle away from foreman?
trouble in the land of false hope?
nice deflection. but our patient doesn't drink. she's a health nut. and even if i was a cynical guy and thought that she was a liar i'd have done a tox screen which would've come back negative for alcohol. you should come to these gatherings more often. keep you from looking like an idiot. [kutner’s beeper goes off.] are you making book or did something else happen to our patient?
so who's paging you? your wife? does it worry you that she paged kutner first?
gastric bypass probably set it off. oh at what price beauty? go start her on plasmapheresis.
took three visits but i finally convinced the contractor that i’m cuddy's boss. and all the office renovation plans need to go through me.
[marking an area on the blueprint] see there? i'm having a bidet put in instead of a toilet. not in addition to. instead of. you want to know what happened to the old toilet?
i smashed it with a sledgehammer.
is this fun for you? analyzing everyone else's fun away?
where are you going?
does foreman schedule your appointments by numbers on the clock or just by when i’m in the middle of something?
[calling after her] so losing the 200 pounds was just a coincidence? [he gets up.]
if her brain is slowly turning into a swiss cheese there's not a lot we can do.
get a brain biopsy to confirm.
that is the test.
you're obviously not opposed to being invasive.
i hereby declare them ruled out.
[following her] start running down cuddy's list of diseases it's not. [taub and kutner get up.]
you're not stopping me for medical reasons. you're stopping me… because you have the hots for me.
evidenced by the fact that i’m the one who moved into your office.
why are you dressed like that? why do you try so hard to get my attention? are you screwing with me?
that depends on your answer.
we already did that. [he puts his hand on her breast.] it seemed like the logical next step.
can you leave these?
i know.
when you were philandering with impunity how did that feel?
you weren't miserable. you gave something away to make a relationship work. you rationalize that you're getting something back.
leave 'em there. i'm gonna do the biopsy myself. [he leaves.]
cuddy doesn't always get what she wants.
you're fired. just reinforcing your point.
thought you said she was sick.
sick people don't spontaneously get better.
sick people who are sick enough to make it to me don't spontaneously get better. not as pithy but yeah technically more accurate. what's the last thing you gave her?
mris detect. they don't treat. what did you give her after the mri?
you gave her cake.
you figured you'd let me play 20 questions instead of just telling me. [he leaves. taub follows.]
feeling crappy again? i brought your cure. [he pulls off the lid of the cake container and gives it to taub. there’s a whole chocolate-frosted two-layer cake inside.] i'd give you an iv of this stuff but the frosting tends to get stuck in the little tubes.
it's not a joke. not a lie. not an attempt to defraud in any way. it's an actual licensed physician with an actual diagnosis. hereditary coproporphyria. [he brings a forkful to her and she turns her head away.] your face is genetically blessed. your body chemistry is slightly less so. [he eats the cake.] doesn't make enough of a certain enzyme that i can't pronounce but it's apparently important for your liver and everything else. treatment is a high carb diet rich in sugar. when you were a porker you were self-medicating.
the best you you could be is a lot more you. [he brings another forkful of cake to her.] open the hangar. here comes the plane.
understand. there's not many people who have the guts to admit they'd rather be pretty than healthy. the income's better and you get more action. i'll start you on your drug treatment right away. [he leaves.]
slowly. [they turn. he’s standing behind them.] and painfully. you're not only idiots you're frauds. fraudulent idiots. fraudulent idiotic killers as it turns out.
your fault? yeah! for pretending to be me when you're not even competent. [he throws a file at kutner.] and your fault for not ratting him out while the patient was still alive. what she had was easily treatable. she could've been fine. damn treatment's so simple. [he stares at her.] might still be possible.
she wasn't dead. she wasn't even sick you moron. [deedee raises her hand and house gives her a high five.] seriously how good was she? no formal training. at least not in acting.
i think we may have an anal hygiene violation there.
that was from a patient three years ago. it was hard to find. but the hair and make-up getting chase and cameron to play along much easier.
take it down? are you kidding? it's way too lucrative to shut it down. for chase for me. i earn 50% for letting you use my name. chop chop. go to work. first dollars go to expenses. i booked our little thespian here for two full days. that's three g's i owe her.
do i?
why have foreman’s breasts suddenly started to droop?
when are you taking vacation? [he raises his eyebrows suggestively.]
so i understand foreman’s absence. your presence not so much.
i’ve noticed you a lot recently. it’s almost as if you have a sexual interest in someone here. like say… taub.
that’s funny. usually explodes after i do that.
twice. [he grabs it and puts it back in the trash] someone’s screwing with me. forget it.
i said forget the book! [the fellows look at each other] why’d they pick on her?
i’m assuming literally. depending on where this school falls on the healthers scale…
when do teachers never know how to motivate their students?
and you standing there beseechingly.
[to cuddy] convenient.
theories!
no. infections?
[angrily] i told you to lay off the present. [the fellows smile behind his back.] and the lsd. we got distracted by the painkillers. toxins are still the most likely.
you talked to wilson.
i knew i should have just wrapped a new present. you said the patient volunteered. where?
soup kitchen in trenton. thirteen kutner — go search the home and the school. taub you take the anal swabbing of the fragrant and contagious homeless men. [taub stops smiling as the fellows leave.]
why don’t you just hang out in the video store and tell everyone kevin spacey’s keyser soze? [he grabs the ice cream] by the way that ending really made no sense at all.
i had no way of knowing there was an expensive book inside.
stealing your ice cream is a completely meaningless albeit delicious prank. observing my team’s reactions to unexplained phenomena could’ve been pretty useful.
have you checked the prices for firemen strippers recently?
you really passed your psych rotation?
if i wanted gifts i would just look deep into my patient’s eyes and act like you. “oh i’m so sorry you’re dying mrs. moron. of course i’ll sleep with you. what i lack in skill i can make up for in…”
right because i’m physically incapable of being polite.
oh i get it. you’re trying to get me to prove you wrong. then i’m gonna be nice to all my patients all through the holiday season and then mr. potter won’t steal tiny tim’s porridge. i’m totally on it.
[thoughtfully] you’re right. i gotta stop being such a jerk. [wilson looks at him. he takes wilson’s second ice cream sandwich.] oops. kinda undercut myself there. [he leaves]
you got that from an anal swab? man you’re good.
[removing his jacket and swiping a lab coat from a chair back] unless you can tie him to the patient…
i hate spunk.
start her on the standard regimen. [he heads for an exam room]
who says it’s a duty?
hi. i’m greg.
hi whitney. how can i help you? [he limps to a stool and sits.]
oh i’m sorry to hear that. i’ll get you fixed up. is there anything else you need like a bottle of water? coffee? mint tea?
if you can’t be nice why be a doctor. so where do you feel the pain?
uh huh. it’s beccaria’s sign. that’ll be gone by your third trimester.
[deep breath] neither is your fetus.
you didn’t know that you were pregnant?
how do i know? i missed my period. i got fat threw up. oh no wait. that’s how you know.
i know because of the tight shirt stretched over the swollen boobs the salt craving you imported into the clinic [gestures at the almost empty bag of chips next to her] the motion sickness patch that doesn’t do anything for the kind of sickness that you feel in the morning.
i believe him.
absolutely. there would need to be a guy sitting between you and the toilet seat. but yes absolutely. [she looks at him imploringly. he rolls his eyes] i was doing so well.
liver lungs and now brain. which has mysteriously reappeared. [the word “brain” had been crossed out on the white board. he puts a check mark over it.] speaking of mysteriously reappeared… [he puts a check mark over the crossed out word “cuddy.”]
you keep showing up. you also keep leaving. it’s possible that you have the hots for me but really really hate this kid. it’s also remotely possible that i have that reversed.
does she remind you of… you? no. you weren’t a loser in high school. you had every tom dick and herschel wet dreaming about you. but she could be making you think of another helpless chubby little girl you recently met.
been a few weeks. just enough time to get over hurt feelings…
unless it also gave her a fungal infection. give her a prick test and antifungals.
[takes a deep breath and adjusts neck] i said those words but with a particular inflection. [he turns back to the desk]
there was a reported case of a civil war soldier who was shot in the testicles and the… musket ball carried the… non-musket ball into the uterus of a woman working in a neighboring field. nine months later a miracle child was born. [to geoff] also maybe she cheated on you.
more likely it came from the guy whose penis made it up there somehow but sure anything’s possible.
[sotto voce] tell him that amnios are dangerous this early on in the pregnancy.
who cares? he doesn’t know.
well sometimes doctors make mistakes [looks at the chart] anna. we need to try twice as hard to fix them. you using your inhaler?
you sure you’re using it right?
no. why don’t you show me how your inhaler works?
jamaican chicken recipes.
so she’s willing to die to cover up some boozing.
[throws up his hands] i have no idea why you care so much. tell kutner to start her on benzos.
uh uh uh. not the alcoholism. seizures. totally different. [over his shoulder as he walks away] don’t need their approval for that.
you sure you want to know? if it makes it any easier i’m going to tell you anyway
[holds up his hand] don’t leave.
no. [geoff takes his hand off whitney’s shoulder] but she also didn’t cheat on you.
[cgi accompanies his description] normally sperm meets egg dna meets dna goes back to her place. cells divide. nine months later joy is bundled. that’s normally. abnormally an egg could have two naturally occurring gene mutations that don’t naturally occur together. spontaneous calcium spike could prep the egg for fertilization without sperm and a division mistake could let the egg split up without ever needing male dna at all. parthenogenesis. a baby without a daddy. in humans it’s only ever been theorized but it was never proved. until now. [he holds up two sheets of paper gesturing with one then the other] mommy baby. your daughter has only maternal dna. i personally checked this five times. in seven months you will have… a virgin birth. [geoff is overcome.] merry christmas.
gotta tell you about this clinic patient.
alcohol withdrawal would cause her heart to race not crawl.
it’s hitting all her organs. could be the blood. what’s her alk phos?
and do a bone marrow to confirm.
why are you so attached to this girl? [cuddy opens her mouth but nothing comes out.] it’s your call. [he leaves]
we went over this. normal complement level. [he shakes his head slightly]
you run a hospital that treats thousands of patients every day. some of them die. every day. if you're gonna get this worked up over every one of them… [he sorts through the pile cuddy put on his desk while he speaks. he reaches a gift-wrapped box and grabs it and his cane] yes! brb
thank you from a patient.
i saved her marriage by showing that her pregnancy was the result of parthenogenesis.
yep. it's unbelievable. but i personally checked it five times.
oh yeah. that does sound impossible now that i think of it. i guess the better explanation is that the paternity test showed she cheated so i faked the whole parthenogenesis thingy. [he opens wilson’s door.]
i win. [he tosses the gift to wilson who catches it.]
mmm more an argument. i realize it would have been simpler to just fake the paternity test but hey — christmas spirit and all that.
and it obviously would have been more fitting if the baby had been born on christmas not just invented then.
which means we don't have one dead patient. we have two.
what's gonna happen to her?
what are you gonna do?
merry christmas cuddy. [he leaves]
either i need a new watch or mowgli is cutting into your beauty sleep.
proving that you're a better foster mom than a homeless drug addict.
i’m gonna need an extension. got some time next decade.
that’s nice of her. two questions — why did she? and why are you telling me?
i’m gonna need an extension. i got some time —-
and i’ve got a w-h-o-r-e visit on —-
this is the favor? i was expecting something involving whipped cream and tongue depressors.
oh i am fascinated already. it’s like i’m treating myself. he gets cured and i get to learn a valuable lesson about the milk of human kindness.
so you're wasting a favor because?
[rattling his vicodin vial] drug-seeking patients —
[who has continued to stare at the pills without taking them] it means they're idiots. it means we got to start from the beginning. [to taub] we’ll do a pain profile to rule out psychosomatic pain. [to thirteen] search the home. [to cameron] go home. [to kutner tossing him the empty bottle] get a refill… and a doughnut.
he’s not in pain because he's depressed. he’s depressed because he's in pain.
we’re not diagnosing his family.
it’s rhabdo. push iv fluids check his urine do a muscle biopsy.
then she'll biopsy all over.
[taking his jacket from the coat tree] if cuddy can come in late i can leave early. if you need anything while i’m gone just ask cameron to do it.
got to let the phone ring more than four times when you're calling a cripple. chronic pain and pulmonary embolism go.
you called after midnight. it’s got to a heart problem. heart only would be consistent with rhabdo which means thirteen and foreman would be singing in the rain which means it has to be lungs as well.
you think the blood clot was caused by a clotting problem. that’s helpful.
and why he's gone three years without anyone seeing it. check his chest abdomen and pelvis for tumors. [he hangs up.]
no hurry. i already bathed once this week. i wouldn't want to look elitist.
fine. pad it all you want. here’s a check for the deductible. don’t touch the piano and lock up when you leave.
well i’m no architect but i’m pretty sure the master bedroom is part of the home which means the home warranty —
yeah 'cause i’m clearly a guy who likes to knock out a few naked pull-ups before i greet the day.
i’m about to hang a plumber in there.
so…
good thing we don't have a suicidal patient with a horrific undiagnosed pain disorder.
if it was vascular we would've seen uneven pulses.
he had hemorrhages in his fingers.
[thinking] yes it does. [he leaves.]
it will be completely ineffective and the pain will completely go away. cancel the angio.
[handing thirteen his cane] where can air come from? hmmm. [he inspects the iv line started at jeff and moving toward the iv stand.] air can either come from a breach in the lumen in the small intestine or in rare instances air can come from the air. [he opens a connector in the line and shows it to hem.] teeth marks. i’m guessing from when he blew into his iv tube.
you tried to finish the job that you started at home.
no. [he leaves.]
are there any visuals in this room that are key to us learning our lesson? 'cause the telephone —
scent of a man! i realize you haven't experienced it sober.
he’s had multiple eegs all of them cleaner and squeakier than cuddy's rubber nipples.
fourteen is right. [kutner smirks.] go run an ischemic forearm test.
if you want a man to take your crap you have to marry him first.
i need the name of a good lawyer.
probably. that’s cuddy's problem.
except the pain's in two places that connect to two separate regions of the brain. which means you're not using yours. come on you're from one of the 12 tribes. you know must know a ton of shysters.
didn’t say i needed a lawyer. i said i needed the name of a lawyer.
were consistent with a completely spotless mri. [to kutner] who represented the hospital when you set that patient on fire?
chris? that doesn't sound like a very good lawyer.
what was the name of the firm?
need to cut off a guy's head. [cuddy turns to leave.] got to figure out if his pain's coming from his brain or his body. [she pauses at the door.] a stiff shot of lidocaine below the brain stem should numb him all the way down to his tippy toes.
i’m inconveniencing you because you inconvenienced me.
if they weren't there'd be no inconvenience.
i’m forcing you to do your job! if you can't also —
if the pain stays it's in his brain. if it vanishes —
you need to scratch option five. he’s already there.
if i don't diagnose him there's a one-in-one chance he'll kill himself.
just stretching my leg. carry on.
[rattling pill bottle] about to get better. don’t worry. he’s making yours a double.
turns out you have to live to find out.
left them all back on krypton.
[quietly after a pause] yes. [chase looks at house for a moment.]
can’t be. if whatever is causing the pain is in your brain it's still a ten. periphery is zero.
the big black guy.
[to foreman as he inspects the envelope without opening it] can you blame me? the last time that happened the guy shot me.
guy’s taken the finest opiates blue cross can buy. how come they didn't trigger a placebo effect?
i think he's faking.
where is it?
[producing an empty bottle of rubbing alcohol from under the sheets.] his idiot son distracted the orderlies so that daddy death wish here could down a bottle of isopropyl. get him on dialysis or in half an hour he'll be a corpse.
remember the feeling. maybe next time you want to help pops you'll do a better acting job.
no angiokeratomata.
all the syph tests were negative. [they silently follow him into the diagnostics conference room.] why aren't you guys still talking?
unless… nothing does.
mine’s a more interesting version of nothing. it used to be something. we can't find anything because whatever injury caused the original pain healed a long time ago. the only thing left is the drugs.
pain and the drugs that treat pain work by changing brain chemistry sometimes to the point where pain receptors read painkillers as killer pain. take him off the drugs.
torture is the cure. eventually his body will recalibrate itself.
yes. i find it confusing to assume otherwise.
good thing i’m not the patient.
it’s the only hunch we've got. if i really wanted to torture him i’d manipulate a clinical trial in the hopes that he'd sleep with you.
i think you got her in because of your usual messiah complex. i think you messed with the appointment schedule because of your i like to have sex complex. i checked the logs. you moved your most promising patient right before her. false hope being quite the aphrodisiac.
well if it were that promising you wouldn't have to change the schedule. but hey… hope springs eternal.
first time making cherries jubilee.
if you ask me some of the portions in that recipe were off. [he picks up his insurance policy which happens to be on the counter and leafs through it.] sure hope it happens to be covered under say section three subsection 2.2 paragraph one accidental fire damage in which case you'd have to replace the entire waterline to fix the sagging pipe.
i know. i started him back on the pain meds… [he drops his backpack behind his desk. she’s still standing there.] which means you can leave.
until we get an answer it's the only way.
there's always an answer.
[quietly] okay.
because i have principles?
i don't care if i pay as long as the people who pocketed my premiums for the last nine years also pay. i didn't break the pipe.
nope but i’m right.
lock up on your way out. and don't touch the piano.
testicles. what do they make you think of?
oh so close. the correct answer is epilepsy.
it does if it spreads to the sensory region of the brain then rewires the pain neurons.
not if the seizures are in a place you can't see on an eeg a place too deep in the brain like the area that controls the muscles supporting the…
feels like you got kicked in the nads doesn't it? [jeff and lynne look at him puzzled.] the abdominal pain how it all started. it wasn't the stomach. it was lower right?
but when it first started.
yeah like bad gas or a permeating pain… like your kidneys were being pulled out through your scrotum.
because epilepsy is treatable.
nice of you to offer. now i can actually get some cream cheese.
love what you're wearing. brings out the blue of the case file which means it's not from the er. so why are you here? [he tears open a packet of cream cheese with his teeth.]
interesting. you have your whole life ahead of you. so why would cuddy want you to die so young?
good. fun. you get to exercise your newfound power. i squirm under your thumb resent the student becoming the teacher and then push comes to shove and we all get to realize what our real roles should be. then you put out. [he takes a bite of his bagel.]
29-year-old special ed teacher coughs up blood all over corky. no dyspnea no weight loss. [to foreman] why are you smirking?
i am going to do my job. if that involves leaving her a rotting pulp…
oh will you two stop it already?
disagreeing.
it's not an opinion. it's a smoke screen. toss out a lame idea instead of agreeing with foreman's better idea because you're worried that'll confirm that he's boldly gone where no man has gone before.
it's extremely relevant. apparently it colors everything. now i have no idea if you have differing opinions because you have differing opinions or because you're just trying to prove that you can think for yourselves.
oh you don't want me to do that. go run a bleeding-time test confirm our patient's blood is screwy then you can come back and pretend to disagree about why.
so now you're agreeing? either you folded because i gave you crap or you broke up or —
yes. don't you?
not with normal ldh.
absolutely and total body irradiation.
don't forget stop her from bleeding into her brain.
true. must be somebody's job to stop me from being reckless and irresponsible. [he gets in the elevator.] nobody can stop me from being premature. [he chortles goofily as the doors close on him.]
got a patient with itp. need to hit her with radiation.
good point. on the other hand if she bleeds in her brain she's gonna need a special ed class of her own.
really?
hmmm. some people thought you were gonna be brutal marking your territory.
nobody. just because i call him nobody doesn't make me a racist.
i need oral sex. i'm pretty sure biological imperative qualifies as medical sense.
i don't really see how that's gonna be possible.
you have a medical dilemma for me. i have one for you. i need a reason to not do total body irradiation.
she said i can.
because it's premature reckless and potentially lethal.
because that would let cameron in on the fact that i never intended to do it.
i figured i'd ask for something really crazy so she'd shoot me down and get the whole i can control house thing out of her perky little system. so the next time i went back and asked for something marginally crazy it would seem marginally reasonable and she'd say yes. so yeah slightly convoluted.
go. do. don't flip.
trust me. in the long term this'll help all our patients. in the short term double the dose of methotrexate and add prednisone.
who has to go pee in the middle of a nuclear procedure?
she didn't know that. [the others look at him.] people don't die from peeing.
oh for god's sake get a room. immerse her in an ice bath. the cold will activate her cold agglutinins.
confirming our diagnosis.
lucky for me there's a flaxen-haired maiden who loves to say yes.
oh i'm sorry. looks like you guys are in the middle of a conversation. i can wait till cuddy leaves. [he makes himself comfortable in an armchair.] you are gonna leave soon aren't you? i mean the nurses have got your baby out there. not that they're gonna kidnap it or anything but i figured that the new mother brings the baby to work because she wants to listen to all the cooing.
unless the new mother brings the baby to work because she wants to dump the baby because she hates the baby and thinks she made a big mistake. [long pause as cuddy and cameron stare at house.] you can't trust that wilson guy with anything.
is wilson gonna be in trouble?
he was worried made a bad choice. it's not a big deal. i know it seems like crap you probably feel like crap but it's not. legally you haven't adopted her yet. there's no obligations no strings. it can be undone tomorrow. emotionally you'll feel guilty for a while but the kid… she won't even know you existed.
much better than having a mother who doesn't give a crap.
we got a green light. go draw the patient's blood.
to see if it clumps in the cold.
she approved the bath. just thought we ought to do a test to confirm.
[getting on the elevator] go draw the blood.
only the ones that might involve stopping the patient's heart.
shut up.
please tell her that talking will ruin the test.
how much longer till the heart attack?
now they're both talking.
i'm not surprised. she obviously has brain damage. [taub looks at him.] seriously.
transposed digits. classic marker for number confusion. means she has a lesion in her left parahippocampal region.
she also forgot to pee before your fake test.
shows an inability to predict the future.
means the damage is ongoing.
i'm compelled.
i never said her deranged personality was a symptom.
can you hear me now?
i did.
or multiple sclerosis. the brain is like the internet packets of information constantly flowing from one area to another. plaques in her brain are like a bad server slow down the flow. if it's in the parahippocampus it'll spread to the brain stem which means it'll be the lungs next. brain biopsy will show you the plaques.
well we could settle this with rock paper scissors but unfortunately there are people who adjudicate these disputes.
not this week not next week not next month.
the heart attack was six hours ago. now maybe it's planning to go into hiding for a couple years or maybe it's gonna hit her lungs.
i'll go fire up the biopsy drill.
you want me to do another test?
no. you wanna say yes. you know you should say yes. but you also think that this job is about standing up to me. so you're not gonna say yes. you're not gonna say no. you're just gonna waste time. and the patient's brain or pancreas or whatever is wrong with her is not gonna wait for you to impress your boss. so pick one either him or me.
this is surprising.
go ahead with the ercp.
who?
what did you call her?
and you want to change that. i'm the last person you'd ever come to for ethical advice literally which means you've already asked every other person and no one's given you the answer you want.
has she invited any of her lesbian friends into bed with you?
drug gonna cure her?
no cure then. so the pros are you might delay the onset of symptoms give her an extra year maybe three. she's still dead before you're 45. the question is are those few years worth risking the rest of your life in medicine?
there that wasn't so hard was it?
you're welcome. [foreman turns to leave again.] unless you love her. [foreman turns and stares at house.] if you love her then you do stupid things.
lung failure proves that one of us was right. who said “brain”?
i was right about the where but not the what. a picornavirus could cause localized demyelination that the mri wouldn't pick up. if we run a nerve-conduction study on the surface of her brain we'll see the dead spots.
actually i'm talking about cutting off her skull exposing her brain.
[leaning over to hold thirteen’s hands] and she agrees with me because she agrees with me right sweetie?
[turning and grabbing one of kutner’s hands in both of his] just accept that you've been proven wrong.
because if i'm right about the brain then we don't have time to indulge your wrongness.
good news. [he comes the rest of the way in.] i don't need your approval for some crazy unproven treatment. i just need to do a test.
remind me to revoke kutner’s telephone privileges.
not searching for ms but what set it off — equine encephalitis. turned a cool breeze of ms into a cat 5 storm.
there's been human cases.
so she got bitten six months ago or it's some other infection. whatever it is it's running rampant in the left side of her brain. when i get in there i’ll get you the specifics.
so you want proof before you let me go looking for the proof? this is the test.
cuddy's gonna love you. the patient on the other hand is gonna hate you until the day she dies next week. actually this idiot will probably forgive you. [he leaves.]
kid with a raging viral syndrome and three dead mosquitoes. i'm off to storm the bastille.
fruit flies. close enough.
team's not what it used to be. on the other hand kutner ran his endoscopic ultrasound didn't find peep.
yes. you used to do this job remember? that's what used to pass for evidence.
i can't find you the proof you want because it's trapped inside her head. and the only way i can get at it is to cut it open and rip it out which is apparently the one test you won't let me run. so either i do this or i do nothing.
i'd certainly like that yeah.
nope i'm just obsessive about clean cuticles.
right we should be retesting her pancreas for the umpteenth time.
i'm skipping steps because our patient is skipping steps on the way to being dead. if you've got a better idea…
if this doesn't work the spleen's all yours. [he heads into the or] unless i kill her of course.
not only will this allow us to clock your brain's processing speed you'll also get free cable for the first three months. [sarah laughs slightly. house sits in front of her wearing a mask but no gloves. he shows her a flash card.] what's this?
nope my lease is up next month. you like? [she smiles wanly.] i'm gonna ask you a series of questions designed to stimulate left-brain function — logic reasoning problem-solving. or as my mentor old ben liked to call it the dark side. if we find slow areas we know we found damage. we treat. you go home. ready?
[showing another flash card] this pen is red. its ink is red. is all ink red?
there are two pints in a quart four quarts in a gallon. how many pints in five gallons?
that's my old boss. [loudly] and by old i don't mean former.
you're not here. obviously i'm not trying to make you go away. [he holds up another flashcard.] hint — the answer is a number.
well she's certainly not funny. put the phone down. pick up the baby. make us all happy.
get it back up. i got a whole stack of these.
baby's crying is annoying you? [to cameron] what's her nerve conduction?
that doesn't make any sense.
why does the baby annoy you but no one else does? i mean you're right about her but —
how come the baby annoyed her?
what was different? our patient loves all things annoying.
she's an earth mother takes in the freaks and rejects of humanity and tells them they're a-okay. so what was different?
she had low blood pressure. according to the laws of physics low blood pressure causes light-headedness chest pain but not annoyance.
you decided to keep her. thank you for telling me. you can go now.
you talked at her. you had a chemical reaction.
i'm trying to explain you.
[taking the baby] you think we'll bond?
is that cute?
if i threw up on you you'd be pissed.
that's 'cause of your hips. if she would've just gestated a little longer her stomach sphincter would be fully mature. but no we have to walk upright which means that baby's head is too big for mommy's hips. and by the way your hips may be an evolutionary improvement. so we've evolved to find baby puke cute 'cause otherwise we'd kill them all before they became functional. [he freezes thinking then stands and starts to leave.] bonding's over. i got to go see another baby.
[entering] spleen's fine.
of course it's her brain.
didn't look in the right part. didn't look in the heart part. [he grabs the ultrasound wand and runs it over sarah’s chest.] in the womb blood has to bypass the lungs since they don't work yet. when we're born we take our first big breath lungs expand and the ductus closes. yours didn't. [he points at the image on the screen.]
when you get stressed your blood pressure goes up and forces open the ductus. blood takes a little detour makes it leak from your nose your stomach your lungs and more significantly keeps it flowing to the right side of your brain and away from your left. which means that when you get stressed you get unstressed. that's why you're so good with those annoying kids. and why when your blood pressure dropped you were able to identify cuddy as an annoying human being. good news is we can fix the heart. bad news for the annoying kids. [he leaves.]
elevator's broken.
awfully thin file.
lots of things can cause pneumothorax. why don't we let eight or ten other doctors rule out the boring stuff?
(popping what looks like more than one vicodin pill) which would make this case attractive to anyone who has some vested interest in people curing the incurable.
did you just get to work?
did you take the elevators up?
yeah. do a ct looking for hyperinflation to confirm. (the team files out)
adorable. elevators keep crashing. is mercury in retrograde or what?
(walking back around to the front of the desk) why do you think the elevators would be out to get me?
you're wrong. i don't even listen to you. either do your job or go home. leave me out of it.
okay.
(to the custodian) hey blue.
people act in their own self-interests. you're all here because you're happy to be here. or at least because it's your best option.
no you're here because it makes you feel good to help people. taub and foreman are here because they've got no other viable choices. and thirteen is desperate to make her life matter before it's over.
does it show?
do a biopsy. (the team files out. house stops foreman) foreman. you've got to look out for the people you care about. that wouldn't have anything to do with you screwing over your clinical trial by slipping thirteen the real drug would it?
does she know? because jonas salk would not approve.
first her lung deflates like me after a cold shower. now her liver starts to bleed like me after—
great. just practicing my clown college audition.
lung liver go.
nope — anybody bother mriing our patient's liver for tumors?
yes. so i'm obsessing about why you're not obsessing about why our patient's liver suddenly sprang a leak.
(looking at the scan) what caused the granuloma?
get a piece of her lung stick it under a black light. if it glows sick children who need her soufflés can breathe easier.
foreman.
(sitting down behind his desk) you have a problem.
then you really have a problem. the way she turned her head to look at the mri... i think she's losing her peripheral vision.
i'm happy for you. a love so deep you're ready to chuck your medical license to give her powerful unproven drugs with dangerous side effects. i don't want to make any assumptions about your feelings for me but i do have a birthday coming up.
you're safe.
cuddy's not playing games. she's not looking for leverage. she wants pure unadulterated vengeance.
the only time to strike back is when i want something. all i want now is to get things back to normal. which i can't get by escalating. the only way to win this war is to lose it. let her punch herself out.
too?
oh thank you rationalization man. you have saved the village. you wanna eat? (he gets down off the exam table)
not anymore. (house opens the door and exits)
itch receptors are only in the top two layers of skin. which means she's not actually itchy she just thinks she is.
thanks for the lesson deepak. the itching started yesterday not eight months ago. meningitis encephalitis... (he snaps the vicodin bottle shut and pops a/some pill/pills)
well how 'bout we stop guessing and mri her head instead?
(pulling a folded up magazine from his hip pocket) i brought you something. the latest issue of “parent” magazine. really interesting column. apparently working moms are actually more engaged and attentive than stay-at-home moms. something about personal fulfillment.
the point is —
(heading for his office) where are your coworkers?
(talking to foreman who has just entered and taken his coat off the rack) oh hey funny you should drop by. we were just talking about this patient of ours. tell him the part about where two of her doctors don't show up — (foreman opens the door to leave) where are you going? (putting something in his jacket pocket and coming back into the conference room) (to taub and kutner) polyneuropathy. it's not in the brain it's in the nerves. it explains the itching the lungs the liver. shock the affected area reboot the nerve — she'll be fine.
(following foreman out into the hallway) foreman. how bad is she?
you don't need your coat to treat a tumor.
to tell them that you compromised their trial your ethics and the patient's health? that's a great idea.
this drug inhibits cell death. i think i could take a wild guess at how i treat that.
oh my god it's been a whole day and her brain tumor hasn't melted away? (the elevator arrives) if you get on that elevator and it's only 'cause you're worried about getting to sleep tonight —
so tell her.
a little late for that. (house stops the elevator doors from closing) you need to wait. because if this thing doesn't go away she's gonna need you to still have a medical license.
(looking at his watch) get it from cuddy.
(holding his leg and sitting up) warmth would have been nice. no heat no power. apparently mrs. house called the utilities and told them we were moving.
by all means let's discuss the failed attempts to contact me not the reason behind them.
shocks without shock an itch that won't stop. she needs dr. seuss. (he pops a vicodin)
no sores no anemia. where's foreman?
because both questions are bound to have the same answer. ebony and ivory are joined near the hip. forget the brain. look lower.
go find it.
you didn't answer the door.
i was looking for foreman. i figured... (he pauses noticing that she is not looking at him) you can't see. where is he?
(grabbing the phone off a table) tell him to come back. i'll dial.
you think that drug company has a magic tumor wand that no one else knows about? you need radiation not ritual sacrifice.
he asked for my advice before he switched you off the placebo. i told him to do it if he loved you.
it's the same thing. yes he's an idiot. you didn't ask him to do anything. you're pissed off that he did. so let him torch his career to pay for his sins. unless you actually feel something for the idiot. in which case you might want to tell him to turn around. (he hands the phone to thirteen who connects the call)
slow down. unless you want to radiate her heart instead of her brain. of course then your problems would actually all go away.
(watching the monitor) you broke the rules. girlfriend went blind. you gotta be ready for losing to be one of the possibilities. you're at the carotid bifurcation.
you did it because you love her. ironically you never took her into consideration. can't wait to see what you get her for your anniversary. catheter's adjacent to the optic chiasm. we're in position. (using tongs he takes a small vial out of a box and hands it to foreman) nukey nukey.
ah the irony of it. maybe she wouldn't be sick at all if some other lazy cancer researcher hadn't gone home early.
shouldn't you be saying those weren't there when we scanned her two days ago?”
good rephrasing. have wilson do a biopsy to confirm.
so what causes masses that do bleed?
so what causes that?
too late — no surgeon's gonna touch her now.
don't be silly. you know what that would do to our malpractice insurance rates? we go on the offensive. cut off the invading army's supply line.
cut off the arteries that feed blood to the tumors they wither and die. (pushing the elevator button) start with the ones in her lungs. if they get any bigger she's gonna have a hard time breathing. so she'll have a hard time telling us she's dead.
let's hope that running marathons wasn't on her happy list. (the elevator doors close)
(taking the cane and holding it up to talk to it) thought i'd never see you again. little little greg. yeah you heard me right!
because you were doing this job perfectly until the baby came along.
i accept. we gonna have to do this dance again in 28 days?
yesterday you hate me. today you're practically weeping on my shoulder. i can only assume that what i'm hearing is your aunt flow telling me...
guess our cycles aren't matched up yet.
nope this is my way of saying you were doing a crappy job before; you will do a slightly crappier job now. everything keeps going. nature of life. nature of parenthood.
you should go talk to wilson. rationalization man needs a faithful sidekick. now rational man needs to go save a life.
damn! oh well. (putting his cane in the waste can he hooks an empty sanitary napkin box and holds it up) that means the only thing i'm gonna get out of this... is a diagnosis. (he flips the box to taub)
fact that the nurses had to give her anything is. means she's bleeding from her uterus. (he goes over to the foot of the bed)
she menstruating and she's bleeding everywhere. there's about a 3 or 4 in 28 chance it's a coincidence. which leaves a much bigger chance that the diagnosis is ectopic endometriosis. she had a myoma eight months ago. surgeons cut through her uterine wall. every cut of the scalpel could have sent endometrial cells spilling out into her bloodstream. some of them took up residence in her lungs some in her liver some in her spine. and like all horny little cells they went forth and multiplied till they reached a critical mass. in the days leading up to her next period when her uterus is supposed to swell everything swelled. and when her uterus was supposed to bleed everything bled. yes ladies i am blaming her period. granted it's the worst period ever. although frankly not by all that much. cut out the masses she'll be fine.
well let's hope she can hold out till then. in the meantime get her a pint of cookie dough ice cream and a dvd of “beaches”. (he leaves)
you told them didn't you? (foreman nods) well you really had no choice... on account of being an idiot. they gonna pull the drug?
gonna keep your license?
that's very decent of them. (he puts the wallet back into the pocket) well good for me. (he closes the locker door) i'll see you tomorrow. (he puts the money in his pants pocket) and the next day. and the next day. (he moves toward the locker room door)
it's a lock-er room. how else are they gonna learn? (he leaves)
taking a lovely young lady to the philharmonic.
two. can't create a harmonic with just one.
jewish baby-naming ceremony a time-honored tradition dating all the way back to the 1960s.
nothing like welcoming a baby into the world with a completely naked display of hypocrisy.
wish i could but i already put down a deposit on 16 crates of jell-o.
religious hokum get sponge bath. can i get back to you?
just browsing. thanks. happy to be underachieving again?
(looking at a file) not anymore. where's this guy?
'cause he's my next patient. it'd be rude of me not to introduce myself.
afraid you might have missed something?
so you admit you have no idea which?
don't thank me. just knowing i can be of assistance is thanks enough.
there are no small cases. any guesses where this joke is going?
could be psychomotor epilepsy…
atropine toxicity occipital lobe tumor.
why would you think that?
both are possible. there's only one day to find out. run an eeg for epilepsy. ct his brain for tumors. and go check his house of god for toxins.
fourteen hold up. (thirteen and foreman stop) this department is broken (house sits down at the head of the table) and i'm not gonna take a real case until it's fixed. job or relationship — your choice.
to put it in terms you might better understand if you don't split you must quit.
don't care.
no you're not. no you can’t. and no i don’t. mull it over. you got until the end of this fake case to decide.
you're a wuss — part wimp part puss.
i thought you were already circumcised.
what about the friend who has two tickets to brubeck at the blue note?
i lied.
yes but only to save you from yourself.
(wondering) it is oddly flattering.
cool.
it's cool the priest doesn't believe in god. it's cool that god did to him what he did to the kid.
you think he's innocent?
and you think he's guilty which explains why you're dying to discharge him.
aren't we lucky to have such an interesting patient?
the world's most boring case just became a page turner you want to tear out the last chapter?
(to himself) bad news for foreman and thirteen. (he gets on the elevator leaving kutner and taub looking puzzled)
case is over.
so which one of you is taking a hike?
interesting.
(to foreman) you're fired.
wrong. again. in fact in the last few weeks it's hard to remember a correct call you made. if chase had compromised his professional judgment to help cameron i’d have fired his ass too.
to save your license not your job and definitely not your relationship. so badge. (he holds out his hand)
why don't you see if you can find us a real case. (she leaves)
must be my lucky day. new symptom means the old symptom was a real symptom and i get to keep our pederast priest after all.
they left.
leprosy can cause necrosis and hallucination.
because foreman doesn't work here anymore and thirteen is mad that i fired him. don't worry. she'll be back. (house puts away the marker and leans on the whiteboard staring at it) she'll be pissed off. she'll want to take a stand. and then foreman will convince her that there's no reason both of them should be out of a job.
leprosy's a bad fit.
i gave him a choice — split or quit. he chose neither. what about ergotism?
he's giving up this career for her. no normal white blood count. carbon monoxide poisoning?
(turning around to face taub and kutner) separately they're great doctors better than you. together they're morons. go check out the house that they would've checked had this been a real case. and page thirteen tell her to run the blood for co. and get the priest in a hyperbaric chamber before anything else falls off.
let's see… how do i keep house from ruining my precious display of religious hypocrisy? i know i'll pressure him to attend knowing that he'll never agree to anything i actually want him to do.
so you keeping kosher now wearing four-cornered garments slaughtering heifers to the god ra? wait is that one your people? do it all do nothing or option c — you're a liar and a hypocrite.
wouldn't miss it for the world.
so the good news is he didn't have a heart attack. the bad news is i apparently fired the only guy who actually knows what a heart attack looks like. so the man of god who doesn't believe in god had a heart attack that isn't a heart attack. do i know how to pick awesome cases or what? could be a clotting disorder.
i know. how cool is that? you two do an angio. (to thirteen) you don't want to work so why don't you just go get me a lottery ticket? the sicker he gets the luckier i feel.
i've been wanting to introduce myself. (he walks out)
are you really a virgin?
and before we treat you we have to diagnose you. not knowing whether we can believe you is making that difficult.
you lost your faith because a teenager got confused?
god i wish you weren't a pedophile.
because there should be. (putting his finger on daniel’s chest) you feel that?
not if the chest pain is related to the numbness. it's not circulatory. it's neurological. run a nerve-conduction study. and be careful. if you kill him he'll be dancing with the dark one. (house leaves)
okay.
okay your obligation to cuddy is fulfilled.
why did hillary conquer everest?
she's being childish.
she's trying to play me. if i let her succeed the terrorists win. (he enters his office)
or we are at the back stage door of a duran duran concert. hundreds of screaming girls clustered around. what does that mean?
the presence of the fans indicates the presence of the band. different night — same band same door. now there's not a girl in sight. what does that mean?
nope the band's still there still rocking out. when does the absence of the fans not indicate the absence of the band?
they don't make ‘em anymore. if there's no infection it's because there aren't any fans no white cells.
why do i bother with these great metaphors if i still have to spell it out? yes i think it's his spleen. go get a biopsy. i'll try to get new moon on monday out of my head.
why are you talking this time?
why?
and you're willing to make that sacrifice for him?
does foreman know about this plan?
well if he's okay with it who am i to say no?
that's what they're testing. so if i happen to cure you what happens then? you start thinking that god was working through me? this is some sort of miracle?
that's what i'm testing.
but if it can magically disappear it can magically reappear and that's what you're hoping. your job…
that's my point. you can make more money frapping decafs and yet you're still ministering to the meek. why do the lord's work if the lord has left the building?
i detect the stink of leftover faith.
solving puzzles. saving lives is just collateral damage.
yeah i want to walk out and find myself in a forest of whore trees but i don't think it's a good idea to tell people to go fornicate with fruit. (he leaves)
hey i was just talking about you… not you specifically — whores and hypocrisy.
okay.
i'm really not coming.
you're welcome. gosh i feel so grown up.
why do people suddenly find religion when they have kids?
so it makes sense because it doesn't make sense.
i've got a thing for my boss's thing. she doesn't have a thing… per se. i'm big on metaphors. what about you? 29 years of celibacy. what's holding you back now?
who wants a relationship?
(looking at daniel through the glass) so father nietzsche has aids.
(now standing behind his desk) and you get brought up on charges. i've lost enough doctors this week. treat him for aids. (he sits down behind his desk. taub and kutner leave)
your attendance is validating her hypocrisy. if she invited you to a ceremonial lynching would you go?
just making conversation. would you rather we go back to talking about mushrooms and cheese?
yes but not until her 16th birthday… in some states.
wow solid advice except for two things. i'm acting like i don't wanna go because i don't wanna go and… (he surreptitiously swipes some food off of the tray of a boy who is walking by) i am incapable of acting like a human being. (house takes a bite of the food he swiped and glances back toward the boy)
love sacrifice deception and now betrayal. this is better than a telenovela.
well… either foreman is here as the two of you discussed to beg for his job back in exchange for me dumping you or… nothing.
yeah! who's the controlling bitch now?
well either you can go after her and try and patch things up or you blow her off and take your old job back.
welcome back.
so went satan forth from the presence of the lord and smote job sore with boils.
i prefer the colloquial term job syndrome. explains the symptoms and my quote.
are you kidding? i've never felt more alive. conflict breeds creativity. go run the genetic tests.
nope. but please feel free to blather on.
religion is not the opiate of the masses. religion is the placebo of the masses. if you're saying she's not a hypocrite —
oh sorry. continue.
we can know everything.
truth is truth. (he erases “hallucinations” from the board) it fits.
i can if it's not a symptom.
not a symptom. (house leaves)
(he stands beside daniel’s bed) you're not gonna die. you have wiskott-aldrich syndrome. it impairs your immune system makes you susceptible to all the aids stuff without actually having aids. and you didn't catch it. you were born with it. another gift from god.
genetic test should confirm it but it explains all your symptoms — toe chest eyes skin.
scotch explains that.
coincidences do happen.
you promised you wouldn't go there.
a woman in florida said look jesus is on my cheese sandwich.
the fact that i was wrong is not a proof of god.
don't worry. your life will go back to sucking soon enough. everything that happened to you can be rationally explained.
it's cold out there.
so it's tonight?
maybe you'll get lucky. maybe your sister will decide the roads are too dangerous to drive on.
have fun.
you gonna eat that? (meaning wilson’s breakfast)
yes we can.
(reaching up to take the file) fun!
less fun but still.
(throwing a patient file to each member of the team) our new patient part girl part boy all thirteen’s dream date.
i won’t do it. (pause) you guys will though.
well that was your experience. must surely apply in this situation.
way to multitask impress your boss and humiliate your ex. mri’s a waste of time. to continue the humiliation go put a camera up his penis.
(clearly surprised by their unannounced entrance) these people were just coming to tell you. this is better don’t have to worry about them losing their way.
(looking at thirteen) did you send them a text?
well who needs med school when you’ve got wi-fi? (to the team) go schedule their son for an mri with contrast right away.
so’s arguing with them.
(who looks bored) with what?
completely unfazed? you think i’m totally lacking in any fazing? the idea that i’m anything less than half-fazed i actually find offensive. it greatly fazes me.
vitamins
now i’m unfazed. start him on corticosteroids for the autoimmune and finasteride to block the vitamins.
so you have pain in one arm and both your legs. does it hurt right now?
(taking the patient’s right forefinger and squeezing it) how about this?
aaahh!
i think my penis stopped breathing; do you know cpr?
i’m fine other than the fact that my nurple is now purple. (to thirteen) no wonder you broke up with him. i’m surprised yours are still attached.
(to thirteen) by the way i can see that from here. i assume those are our patient’s lab results.
it's called vicodin i took too many.
(loudly) can i please get some information about our patient?
i don’t remember hiring my mother. what causes the enzymes in little boy george’s existing heart problem and pelvic pain?
i don’t remember having breakfast with my mother.
search the school; search the home.
both. (he gets up from the chair)
(grabbing his jacket) nowhere i’m staying right here so we can properly discuss this. (he walks out the door)
downer and medically irre… (his voice fades out as if he’s falling back asleep)
(to kutner with his eyes still closed) back off. only thirteen gets to grab my nipples this time.
unless the next stanza reads “hoping to fry my brain to death i smoked some primo crystal meth” i’m not interested.
we’re not here to make him happy; we’re here to diagnose him.
(about the drinks) when did you order these?
i came here expecting a burger. figured i’d have to endure a little lecture on moderation.
instead i get a drink; a nice little serving of respiratory depressant on the day that my lungs stop working.
you don’t believe that i od’d on vicodin. you figure i’m on something stronger and because you can never ever assume anything but the most screwed up scenario as far as i’m concerned —
you think that i’m on heroin. this is your version of a tox screen. because if i am on heroin; i can’t drink that without risking another bout of not breathing.
goodnight. (he gets up from the table and leaves)
okay i admit it. i have bulimia. i look good though don't i?
i'm not on heroin.
i'm on methadone. stupid product. heroin without the high.
but no risk of arrest.
today was a fluke. i nodded off.
i'm not detoxing.
doesn't help my pain it eliminates it. (house tosses his cane into a nearby dumpster and turns to walk away. he pauses) my leg doesn't hurt anymore. (he walks out toward the street leaving wilson bewildered)
i'm not breathing but it's strictly voluntary. should've seen the guy who was in here before me.
(sighing) it's legal. i have a prescription.
he knows i'm in pain. what i put in my body is my business.
if you'd said that if i keep doing this you could die then it'd be your business.
i'll send someone for my stuff. (he starts to walk out)
i'm choosing lack of pain over this job. (he walks out)
i hired her to watch me sleep — make sure i don't stop breathing.
she's not a nurse.
surprisingly hookers are cheaper. and they don't sue for sexual harassment. (holding up two ties) which one?
the red one then.
(walking across the room to a small mirror on the wall) meeting at st. sebastian's today. gonna try and talk 'em into starting up a diagnostics department.
(tying his tie in front of the mirror) i'm fine.
i have an interview in two hours.
hand over my letter of recommendation.
you have no right to sabotage —
seems weird getting my meds here when i'm working somewhere else.
i want a raise.
and a bigger office... but in the same spot.
okay.
(sincerely) thank you.
i have issues with authority. you?
cuddy missed me.
she asked to borrow it for some reason. patient dead or do i need to do anything? (house takes off his tie and loosens his shirt collar)
wow. two days and you've already got two separate theories. (house sits down)
when did you two come up with this?
so what did we miss? when i say we i mean you since i wasn't here.
that was a dumb idea.
because it was wrong.
oh crap. (pause) this kid like energy drinks?
nice work. (he gets up and heads for the door)
why wouldn't we be? (to thirteen about her shoes) nice heels. (house leaves)
this is all your parents' fault.
(to jackson) chug a lot of energy drinks before during and after practice? (jackson nods)
your son came in here with simple dehydration. that's why he collapsed during the game.
that's where the energy drinks came in. they put a strain on his kidneys so he needed more time to rebound from the initial dehydration.
that's where your idiocy came in. before we could give him another glass of water you two insisted i do an mri. so i go down a blind alley looking for a blind uterus. and my team injects him with contrast material. if his kidneys had been healthy they would've filtered out the contrast in a couple hours. since they weren't it went around and around eventually getting absorbed by his heart his liver and his pancreas; getting in trouble everywhere it went. your son was fine when he got here. it was your freaked-out overprotectiveness that nearly killed him.
he's young. a few weeks of dialysis he should be fine.
you gave birth to a freak of nature. (he turns and opens the door) doesn't mean it's a good idea to treat him like one. (house leaves the room)
i'm done with the methadone. i screwed up.
i knew he didn't need it. i did it anyway. that's what got him sick.
i created a case. i played nice because i was in a good mood because i didn't hurt. (he gets up)
(firmly) i'm not interested in good.
why do you care if i'm happy?
no.
it's already done. (he throws the methadone in the wastebasket and grabs a hospital cane which is propped against the wall) this is the only me you get.
doesn't look like a friendship bracelet.
you're telling me this patient got a railroad spike drilled through his frontal lobe? (he takes the patient file)
whereas our guy became a different person after chardonnay.
(to foreman) mri show anything?
good. what fun would that be? so the tumor's not in the cool neighborhood. it's cool neighborhood adjacent.
(handing the file to foreman) go stick a scope up phineas's nose. see what you find. (the team leaves)
wednesday night. low-down-blue-meanie versus the incinerator.
let me rephrase. low-down-blue-meanie —
not when it follows low-down-blue-meanie. is the world coming to an end tuesday night? otherwise wednesday—(they stop)
yes you do.
you've always liked monster trucks.
what are you hiding?
no it's not. we may be able to fix his impulse to say his thoughts out loud but he always gonna be the guy who thinks them.
you would argue that. you're all persona.
there's damage somewhere in his brain. go find it. (kutner leaves)
you're welcome.
you're 40 years old…
the administrator of a hospital…
people don't get personal with you. except for me and you dismiss me as a jerk who's jerking you around. (they stop at the elevator) but that guy can only tell the truth. and he prefers your body to that of a smoking young hottie.
you didn't get the slightest kick out of that?
anyone sitting here?
you know it's amazing the way people cling on to insults. or what they think are insults. (he takes a sandwich and fries off of wilson’s plate and puts them on his own)
i'm not suggesting that like our patient you're hiding a dark sarcastic core beneath a candy shell of compulsive niceness. (house has pulled a fork out of his breast pocket)
because you know nice bores me. hence still nice. no i'm suggesting that you have no core. you're what whoever you're with needs you to be. okay i guess that could be insulting. the interesting question is why. why do you think the world will end in chaos and destruction if you're not there to save it? (he starts eating wilson’s lunch)
and why'd you lie about monster trucks?
i checked your appointment book. you got tomorrow night marked off but you didn't put down what you were doing. so you thought someone might look at the book —
why would you hide that?
you say that as though it wouldn't be fun.
(to taub) hey cyrano de berkowitz. let it go.
(to taub) so how long have you been playing racquetball with wilson?
(swinging his cane like a tennis racket) first of all wilson played tennis on his college team and you are a jew. you're not athletic. run to the end of the hall and back. i'll time you.
sandy koufax is all you jews go on about. sandy koufax and the holocaust. (he sits down) gets old.
(to taub) is a z-shot offensive or defensive?
you suspected that was a trick question. 
we can narrow the testing down to 40 likely candidates. test for peripheral nerve damage.
yes that's why we should not test him for it. test the daughter. kutner runs the nerve test. taub you may be right about the diabetes. take supper away from our patient and run a glucose tolerance test. oh and the nurses have been working so hard. you can do the blood draws yourself.
that would be petty. i'm punishing you because now you've joined my best friend in lying to me. let me know when you're ready to confess everything. (the team leaves)
(still tossing the ball) i need you to update me on the patient's condition.
i need you to update me on the patient's condition (he sits up and holds up the ball) while hitting this against the wall. (house tosses the ball to taub who catches it) this is the only place we can do both.
i expect the people who work for me to rise to a challenge. unless they don't expect to work for me.
so the glucose was normal. means you were wrong about diabetes.
so you're going for thyroid instead of pancreas? makes sense.
(nods) not bad. you put on a good show. you studied up. wilson actually booked a court. if you were really a racquetball player you'd know that you were holding a squash racket. (pause) tell kutner to do a thyroid reuptake scan i’ll go grab a nap in one of the on-call rooms. (he gets up and heads out the door)
go back to phineas get a history.
get a detailed history.
get a more detailed history. ask him again. and again until he remembers something. (taub starts to leave)
(to taub) not you. kutner can do it. you're gonna be busy with something else. (kutner leaves)
you sound pleased about something. can we get to that part?
was the wife there to hear this?
too bad. keep going.
the dog was fixing the television?
the patient's eyes red?
bacterial. he lucked out. start him on doxycycline. if he improves we'll know we were right.
and now you're telling me. what does that make you a quadruple agent? (they walk into house’s office)
wow. excellent. information he wants us to have. did he let you print out his deleted e-mails?
then go back there —
(reading the email) writing to confirm wednesday at 7:00 pm.
secret consult 7:00 pm. (he finds a picture of joan gonzalez online) oh joan is perky.
where? (he holds out his hand for the file)
no. wilson doesn't password-protect his patient files. i'm the only one he'd expect ever to look there and he knows there's only one patient i'd want to check on.
(typing again) if wilson had cancer there'd be no reason for him to drive three hours to manhattan. he could pull strings here and get the best treatment. (he pulls up a list of articles on his computer screen) six articles by gonzalez. managing suicidal thoughts in oncology patients suicidal ideation in children with leukemia.
(turning to look at taub and speaking very curtly) no. get out of here. (taub leaves house looks worried)
(getting up and approaching wilson) your assistant said that you were out of the hospital taking a walk.
i don't know. is there? you never take a walk unless you've got something you need to think about.
the other thing you do when you need to think is you come to my office. (wilson turns away from house) apparently this is something you can only discuss with gonzalez at new york mercy. (wilson pauses and turns to face house)
private dick.
of course you need hot coffee. it's 45 degrees outside and you left your coat upstairs. why?
once you get outside the cold would have reminded you. you could have come back but you didn't. you chose to be uncomfortable. now why would someone choose that? because they hate themselves?
if you're here to say thanks you're welcome. now go away.
oh all the more reason to go away.
those are the breaks. (he walks over to his desk)
you could die.
(handing nick’s file to chase) i want you to remove a small problem.
but your boss is. you could assist. i'm sure you'd like to add to your resume.
your boss would. he's an egomaniac. i know 'cause i keep seeing him at the club. he just needs a little push. i'm sure by now you've kissed his ass sufficiently. (chase laughs and turns to put the clothing he is holding and the file on the sink. he takes a sip from a coffee cup on the counter) would you like me to phrase it as you're politically gifted? i can do that.
why what?
my patient has a quality of life issue.
(with eyes downcast not making eye contact with chase) when he leaves here he's going to lose his family. he's gonna alienate the people he works with. and if he ever finds a friend who's willing to put up with his crap he'll be lucky. until he drives them away too. (he glances sideways at chase who has realized how personal this has become for house. house is speaking as much about himself as he is about nick)
(looking at wilson) you've apparently got this whole coat thing backwards.
you definitely overreacted.
it made me think. you only snap on one subject: losing people. so i went back to the intel. it's true there's only one doctor named gonzalez at new york mercy but there's a javier gonzalez who's a nurse in the psych ward. and who could you lose who'd end up there?
daniel wilson. (pause) once you got a name it's amazing how much stuff you can learn on the phone. i mean if you're a doctor and you lie freely. they found your brother sleeping in the lobby of an office building in manhattan. got aggressive when they asked him to leave and the cops took him to the mercy psych ward.
but you're not sure if he wants to.
why wouldn't you tell me this?
i am fully capable of lying to you. i've lied plenty of times.
because it might all go horribly wrong.
in which case you might want some company. (wilson walks back toward house as if he cannot believe what he just heard)
(handing wilson his coffee and sitting down across from him) you told me you saw your brother once. after he disappeared.
that's why you were so eager when i told you there was a job at princeton. i thought it was just my charm.
they already texted me to say they're doing something stupid. (wilson smiles)
the spell-correct on kutner’s phone has got a hair trigger. either that or the patient has a “cyclone in the floral of his lungs.” (he closes his phone) you took a walk in 45-degree weather and you left your coat behind.
i think you were punishing yourself. i think you wanted to feel what it would be like be homeless in a new jersey winter. that tells me guilt. that tells me something happened.
where were you?
interesting. later for that. go on.
i wonder how that turned out?
so you made your one effort to live a normal selfish life and the universe immediately smacked you down. and because we're wired to find meaning in semi-random events you decided never to be that careless again.
actually i don't. i think you did it consciously. you developed your people-pleasing talents (house gets up and faces wilson) the way an olympic athlete develops his muscles. talk about an overreaction to a single event.
hanging up the phone? that's what you're blaming all this on. that's the behavior you've been trying to correct. as though nothing else went wrong in your brother's life. of course he overreacted too but… (talking more to himself than to wilson) his glucose was normal? (the aahha moment)
it's house. avms don't explain his glucose.
(into the phone) yeah.
(still talking on his phone) explain that.
you'd given him steroids. his glucose should have been elevated. that wannabe cyst you found in the whole body scan; without the glucose it's an irrelevant cyst. with the glucose it's a relevant fibroma. he has doege-potter syndrome.
this whole thing is an overreaction. that one small fibroma. it's benign but his body's acting like it's an invader. his antibodies went to war against it and got carried away attacked his other systems. take out the fibroma he'll be a happy hypocrite again in no time. (house puts away his phone and turns to find that wilson is no longer there)
you okay?
sure. he sounds interesting. (knowing that wilson has more to say) go on.
which is better than terrible.
does it bother you that we have no social contract?
okay.
it is kind of fun watching you torture yourself.
no. but when it does go wrong it won't be your fault.
you do actually like monster trucks?
i'm waiting for a follow-up.
i've been in this room a while but it's spring now right? [he climbs off the table he was standing on.]
run-down. come on give me something. sore throat?
runny nose?
[loudly] dr. cuddy i need a consult. [cuddy enters.] until she stops seizing i may as well go back to my office and get my diagnosis on.
she's having a seizure. if she hadn't peed it would…
interesting.
35-year-old woman. head of nursing at an old age home.
from now on i'm gonna use two colors. green indicates irony.
welcome your lordship. we were just preparing your morning briefing.
us aren't taking anything. i'm taking. you're accepting.
[looking away] go check out the house and the office for toxins and infections.
luckily neither are you.
so your insight is based on discovering an anti-alzheimer's drug at an old-age home.
you ever tried to pee on yourself in public? it's not easy.
for good reason. i can spot a fake seizure. which means this was real. which means her problem is phenol.
it's still in some antiseptic throat sprays. she's been chugging it all winter for her colds. phenol explains the seizure and the urine.
which is why i'm sure you won't have trouble discovering evidence of it when you search her house. bye. [taub leaves. to kutner] and you can start her on charcoal hemoperfusion for the phenol poisoning. [kutner starts to leave.] seriously?
because i don't want him to know that i'm wasting my time disproving his fake seizure theory. [he indicates zipping his lip.] zip.
head ct was negative.
sure. how about i flash some lights in front of your face first?
we're gonna have to give up the room unless we can confirm a problem.
dammit.
what are you worried about? you have maybe a night in jail for fraud. i have to go tell one of my employees he was right.
you'll have to come up with something more original.
cats make terrible doctors. oh no wait that's women. you're screwed. [he leaves.]
if you're going to kill me and rape me please do it in that order.
debbie. sorry but without a last name…
[calling from his desk] can you come back later? i have some business i’m conducting with the prince of nigeria.
quick! before she goes without attention for eight seconds.
[he gets up goes to the door but doesn’t open it.] she's faking. the cat told me.
gotta say i don't think the changes they've made to american idol really work for me.
don't we all have quirks? aren't those eccentricities what make us human?
nut jobs get sick too.
well anything would sound ridiculous if you said it in that voice.
there's that voice again.
consecutive?
[holding debbie] no mister bond i expect you to die. bronchospasm go.
he might have. dude had a lair. means he was rich. [he puts debbie on the floor.] rich people enjoy a good stogie sometimes send them as gifts. hey taub! did that sound like i was awkwardly trying to segue into making a point?
it's more possible that it was just a coincidence. 10 million nursing homes.
we shoulda listened to ted nugent.
the worms hop from the cat to the cat lady's lungs. i could buy that.
hey that reminds me why is some fancy ceo sending you a box of cuban cigars? is it related to your money worries?
extrapolating from the fact that he's been skipping his morning muffin i'd say that he lost almost all his money on the market last year.
i'm also extrapolating from the online portfolio you forget to log off. but it's mostly the muffins. scope her for worms in the lungs.
what else could cause bronchospasm?
because patients sometimes crash and they haven't yet invented a crash tractor for me to drive wildly around the hallways.
no i know the cat is not going to predict anyone's death. then i will have scientifically disproved…
if i could prove the non-existence of an omniscient god who lovingly guides us to the other side i would. cat version will have to do. [he shoves debbie toward kutner who pulls back slightly.] are you scared?
please tell me that you were kidding so i won't have to fire you.
of course not. this is a double-blind. i don't want to even subconsciously
[injecting the patient with something] that never happened.
good news mister… limpert when you don't die tonight you will finally have done something good for the world as opposed to your life as a… fireman. foreman's airborne allergen theory makes the most sense. do a methacholine challenge on catgirl to check it out.
do you see a cat?
[brandishing his cane] this is a disability dr. cuddy. can't make it to the men's room on time.
well now you see the mice actually prove that i don't have a cat. [there’s a tank of mice in the corner.]
genetically modified for tastiness. [he smacks his lips together several times.]
my team's doing a methacholine challenge.
who told you about the test? taub?
her airways clamped down. i heard it. we kick her onto the street it could happen again. i wish there was a lawsuit cat. it could warn you.
you’re joining me for a good-bye smoke.
fine. if you don't want the seventh graders to think you're cool. [he lights a cigar and blows the smoke at her.] i went through your purse. horoscopes. good luck charms. you went to a good college good nursing school. so you weren't always a superstitious idiot.
how 'bout four years that sound right? that's when you switched from a family insurance plan to the one you're on now.
two years before that you got chicken pox shots which you only get in adulthood when you have a kid. or i should say when you had a kid because no kid has come to visit you. which all makes me think something bad happened.
what happened?
you want to make it make sense.
it’s meaningless is what’s wrong. what’s wrong is that it doesn’t do a thing to bring your kid back or put you and your ex together again. [morgan starts coughing.] rash on your neck. probably not enough for cuddy. [he puffs harder blowing the smoke at morgan.]
hey doc. [he calls over a doctor who is nearby.] breath sound soft to you doc? [the doctor listens to morgan’s chest and nods.] hooray! you're officially sick.
churg-strauss fits best. here's the plan… taub change the litter box.
nope this is for ratting me out to cuddy. i'm not asking you to apologize just scoop some poop out of a box.
what you think your bag's gonna die now?
it's not so much about me caring per se. it's more about me wondering why you're such a credulous idiot. thirteen start the patient on steroids for the churg-strauss. unless we have something we need to argue about.
i'm just a girl who can't say no.
[hanging his cane on a bookshelf] she didn't fake the bronchospasm. you think she's faking some stuff but not other stuff? maybe she's unchausen.
nothing.
brown could be fecal. a fistula…
had to be. once you've gone brown…
[sitting] purple. strep bovis infection from colon cancer. paraneoplastic syndrome would explain the bronchospasm.
oh no.
what? not everything's about you kutner.
great 'cause i thought your superstitiousness had to do with your folks being killed. but you're stupid works just as well. [he cracks a hard boiled egg against his forehead and starts peeling it.]
oops. forgot that one. [he picks up the ladder and repositions it diagonally across the doorway.] scopes don't work as well as pillcams. give her one. find the tumor. come with me tiny taub.
knew it when i hired you. you'd eventually miss the money being the big shot like your new ceo friend if that night club stamp on your hand is any indication.
i know. guy who signs a non-compete instead of just telling his wife that he cheated doesn't have the guts to quit.
from guilt not from courage. and bravely running to cuddy behind my back. arriving heroically late every day. cowards make lousy employees. maybe you're a coward maybe you're quitting. either way i'm screwed. [he leaves.]
you will note how “faster pussycat! kill! kill!” has snuggled up by coma guy over there. and more importantly she did yesterday as well. and he's still breathing. we done?
in 1844 a preacher in upstate new york added up some dates in the bible and predicted jesus' return. his followers gave away all their possessions and showed up in a field. guess who didn't show. so the preacher said that he miscalculated and they went right back the next month but with more followers. every time he was irrefutably proved wrong it redoubled everyone's belief.
that would be dumb as she might be dying.
i don't care if her superstitions make her feel better. i just want her to think more clearly.
experimenting. [the “backpack” yowls. another doctor in the elevator looks around.] stop it dr. wilson. it’s just not cute anymore!
not to the patient. and not to the millions of idiots who drooled over that news item about the magic cat.
hey look kids therapy cat.
aren't you feisty? this one's special. if she likes you interesting stuff happens.
i don't believe in the legend of goodbye kitty.
i'd love to hear more of your theory but i don't give a crap. [he checks the message on the phone] also the pillcam's back.
polypoid. raised edges.
oh my god the death cat is attacking your legs. you're going to die.
[continuing to point the laser at kutner’s feet] oh my god the death laser is attacking your legs. you're going to die.
skin cancer could have metastasized to the intestines. cool. check for melanomas.
what?
spider veins means cushing's. could cause an abdominal disturbance brown urine…
cushing's myopathy. it's uncommon but… [he turns on the light and winces.] wait a second. you didn't wake me up to tell me a symptom that's not killing her. what else is going on?
i just told you it's cushing's. we treat…
if that's my high school gym teacher…
here puss puss puss puss puss.
you're right. sulking will solve everything. that cat sat on my lap and that cat knows something.
yesterday it was until i unintentionally proved it wasn't.
exactly except if you'd glanced at the nursing home files i had faxed over this morning you'd know that most of the patients' livers and kidneys were fine; what else?
so check her acth.
well maybe as the senior fellow you could have made sure that my doors were closed so that i could be concentrating on the cat instead of looking for the cat.
cheaper than fake blood. and more cran-tastic. don't ever leave my door open like that again.
so have chase do a venous sampling in her brain. if he finds something it's there. if he finds nothing it's the adrenals.
catnip. chew toy. i don't know. that's why i'm looking…
that tell us anything?
so nothing. what about the acth?
that confirms the cushing's is in the brain… go.
if it had a normal presentation there wouldn't be a cat involved.
that's not a question for me. that's a question for the patient. you'll present both sides and let her decide.
you mean the theory about cuddy's ass getting bigger at the full moon? i confirmed that one. photo’s on my blog.
case is over. i'm exploring a scientific mystery.
early.
you got a new job?
well then you're not quitting. see you back here tomorrow.
easier this way. it avoids the whole thing where you panic run back and grovel and i punish you and then take you back.
bring donuts. everyone loves those bear claws.
here puss puss puss puss puss. puss?
i was right. and more satisfyingly you were wrong. it was a coincidence. the cat was not predicting deaths. it was just trying to keep warm.
they are if they're feverish like three of the patients were. or if they're wasting away like the other eight.
yeah it does. if it means someone sticks a heating blanket on you.
completely trivial. my god. it's clearly only partially trivial. debbie climbed on morgan too which means she was overheated. so what causes flushing and mimics every cushing's symptom except central body obesity?
means it must be somewhere the pillcam couldn't go.
yes i did. [grabs the phone] what's the o.r. extension number? just curious.
i wouldn't come here for thanks. that would be ungracious. it's more about gloating. you were about to cut out a piece of your brain just to chase some crazy superstition.
you didn't didn't do anything. i stopped it.
science. logic. reason. pick any three.
you're an idiot.
because his followers were as deluded as he was.
feel better. [he leaves.]
kutner! [kutner comes in from the conference room.] cat pee on my chair?
fake blood! [kutner just stares at him.] you pay for the dry-cleaning. [he picks up his cars and his backpack and leaves.]
see you tomorrow.
[vo] hey genius. i think it violates certain ethical laws to rip the organs out of a guy who's still alive. possibly certain law laws too.
it's actually doctor house. [house comes into view or rather his blue shirt does. the left elbow is ripped and bloody.]
there's also navy seal house. but you're going to have to save up for that one.
scraped my elbow. i just need a truckload of vicodin. whereas this guy…
see that?
i discerned it.
then why is his eye following you?
i also know about locked-in syndrome… that things are either involuntary… or voluntary. blink if you can hear me.
oh this is going to be fun.
the square root of nine? [three blinks] he got that faster than you. brain is fully functional. [house has an ugly bruise on his left cheekbone directly under the eye.]
unless… the crash didn't cause the brain damage. maybe the brain damage caused the crash.
[checking lee’s hands] look at his palms. no scrapes. he didn't even try to protect himself. suggests slowed reflexes… or no reflexes.
[ignoring kurtz] get me the scans. stroke cancer even a simple infection. anything that insults the central pons could do this.
stop it. i'm blushing.
just looking for some reading material for the crapper. these cts —
never better.
if you can't bring mohammed to princeton bring princeton to mohammed. that's my diagnostics posse. hot dark and darker. [he gestures using a french fry.]
buying a gibson '57 goldtop. it's the guitar duane allman used to play.
ct was clean.
guy's an active bike rider his heart's fine.
she's the smart one. i just keep dark and darker to fill out the quota. if we find it treat it you could be fine.
if you're praying in there stop it right now.
his doctor's busy teaching him how to blink out kill me in morse code. luckily i found some forms under the mattress. [he pulls them out. kutner hands him a pen and he signs them.]
i guess you like me.
what? by god?
you spend an awful lot of time in church for someone who doesn't.
it's either one or the other.
god is also the guy who opened his car door in front of you.
i think so.
hope you don't mind. my new roommate snores. and my new room doesn't have you. [he turns on the light.] your mri showed a lesion in the central pons. [pulls out mri film.]
see it there? [he points to a spot on the film.]
mm that's what they said. but it's there. which means no way head trauma did this. it's cancer causing a paraneoplastic syndrome. unfortunately your current doctor thinks its diffuse nature means an infection. now the bad news is the antivirals he's got you on might kill you.
but the good news is if they just almost kill you then dr. idiot will realize that his name is not a coincidence and he'll let me do whatever i want.
see the irony here is… you're kind of fascinating. so many questions. but if you could answer any of them then you wouldn't be fascinating.
your wife is the one getting you through this. your wife and me. although frankly the mri was a lot more useful than four hours of hand-holding. i think.
you're a good guy. easy to talk to.
need some help in here! your patient is seizing.
because he has cancer!
welcome back. and nicely played. you almost died. [out of side of his mouth as if it were a secret but at normal speaking volume.] exactly as we planned.
it usually happens when you treat cancer by pretending it's not cancer. right doctor? my turn?
a small tumor in his brain stem causing paraneoplastic syndrome. he needs plasmapheresis.
i don't. which means i can treat him.
would you send up a couple of bellboys?
fresh infusion of macho. you like?
antiquing. i found you a late victorian corset. come by later i'll tie you up.
probably because there was no message. i've decided to accept your resignation.
no you didn't. you had it decided for you. so now you're stuck here with a boss who knows that you want to be somewhere else. which means you're no longer motivated to impress me which means you're no longer motivated to come up with good ideas. unless i'm wrong. save the cheerleader. save your world. [they reach the elevator.] i got it from here.
what do you care?
i was buying a guitar.
you live ten miles from mary's dress shop. and yet that's not even on my list of reasons that i think you're secretly a transvestite.
i went to visit your ex-ex-ex-wife…
…who lives in thompson ridge. i let her know about the extra money you're making on the lecture circuit. so she'll be sure to adjust your alimony.
yeah. i wouldn't do that.
he's a roofer. alcohol hardly proves your theory.
either we play 20000 questions with every street drug or instead of talking to him we talk to the lesion.
for the record that doesn't count as your inspired idea. it's sort of where i was heading.
god's mistakes are well-documented. if he'd done everything right the first time there'd have been one plague and zero great floods.
you think your doctor has an apartment on mount olympus?
[pause] i don't know.
two options: my neurologist screwed up or else something the hospital lawyer's going to have to come up with when you sue us.
it's possible. also possible is that the surgery caused so much swelling in his brain stem that he's just gone.
he had one way to communicate and now that's gone. well played.
did he report having bloody diarrhea?
did you ask him?
if he had epstein-barr he'd have belly pains. if he had picornavirus he'd have headaches. five other yes/no questions and maybe we'd know what treatment to give. and what treatment would kill him. unless he's already dead.
you know how you hate it when i meddle in your lies? i mean your life.
interesting. this has nothing to do with you your ex-wife or my pain. i was heading to the downstate correctional facility in fishkill.
it's where foreman's brother is being held.
have you had any bloody diarrhea in the last two weeks?
any recent joint pain?
good. could be missouri malaria. let's start treatment.
hmmm. either that or he lied to you about it. people do that sometimes. for example i just lied to him about missouri malaria.
when you weren't in st. louis for two days i assume you were getting some strange for two days.
amazing. a man who only has two blips at his disposal can still lie.
if you were getting some really strange strange you could've contracted neurosyphilis. infection went to your brain froze you right up. good news is it's treatable. you'll be up and moving in time to sign the divorce papers.
were you out of the state?
were you within 20 miles of your house?
[vo] were you within five miles?
[vo] within two miles?
did you stay at a hotel?
you had to sleep somewhere. your car?
a friend's house?
that narrows it down depending on how popular you are. tell the wife to stop crying get in here. [molly enters the picture as the camera continues to circle around all three of them on the suburban street.] he says that when he was supposed to be in st. louis he was staying at a friend's house.
let's assume that you believe him for the moment. name your friends within two miles.
guess someone who doesn't have a wife.
got an address?
great. all you gotta do is come up with a good idea.
that's a great idea. for the guy who invented the computer that can read minds. your idea was to use his idea.
what's interesting is why you're here now. not when i gave you the ultimatum. was it something the patient said?
kutner found the battery factory. kutner came up with the cadmium. maybe you don't matter.
[sticks his arm out without looking away from the white board] he's locked-in his kidneys blew a fuse and now his eye is oozing pus.
ow! [he looks at the bruise on his elbow for a minute then returns to the white board.] the way he's losing his myelin makes an infection most likely. could be varicella —
but the initial acyclovir would've treated that. which pushes me towards an autoimmune disease. like behcet's.
[he empties the cup into his mouth.] oops. [she scrubs the bruise.] ho! of course if the varicella was resistant it wouldn't matter what they did up in middletown.
you've been in the er too long. when the patient had head trauma white blood cells only indicate that he had head trauma.
why did i fire you again?
busy. kutner's doing an lp so i have to focus.
you know what's more interesting than what i was doing? the reason you are so obsessed with what i was doing.
says the deflector. the reason i was up there is the reason you're scared i was up there. i was checking out your dirty little secret. how long have you been sleeping with her?
your only secrets are the girls you find embarrassing. and the only embarrassing girl you've met recently is the one at your brother's cuckoo facility.
she's a caregiver. like all of your other failed exes. and someone who takes care of your brother. who was the last person who took care of your brother?
actually i was thinking masturbatory but i guess your mom took care of him first. so the safe course is to gouge your eyes out.
[sitting in a beach chair] it doesn't seem that way.
not yet. [pause as medical monitor can be heard beeping] but you're about to be.
[simultaneously almost inaudibly] the arrest means the demyelination hit the area in his brainstem that controls heart rhythm. we need answers fast ‘cause this is going to happen again.
not without the results of the lp.
shut up shut up. [lee’s computer is beeping “no” “yes” “no” “yes.”] he's trying to talk. [“yes” beep] is something bothering you?
left foot? [“no” beep] check his… let me see now… yeah his right foot.
then there should be no pain. is it a tingling sensation? [“no” beep] is it itching? [“yes” beep]
itchy foot means liver failure.
i didn't say failing i said failure. just like you. liver's like a cruise ship taking on water. as it starts to sink it sends out an s.o.s. only instead of radio waves it uses enzymes. the more enzymes in the blood the worse the liver is. and once the ship has sunk there's no more s.o.s. you think the liver's fine but it's already at the bottom of the sea.
now we just need to know what's causing the liver failure.
oh god if only taub had said that it would've been a happy ending. do a biopsy to confirm.
rat pee. very nice idea. who came up with it?
good. [taub leaves.] you okay with him claiming the credit?
if he did he'd have hung a mission accomplished banner in my outer office.
the fact that he stole your idea means that he cares enough to lie. that's all i needed to know. rat pee. that's a very nice idea.
no i didn't. so either i have a hole in my pocket —
you underestimate the entertainment value of your obsessions.
you had no right to invade my privacy. [he reaches under lee’s pillow and pulls out a recorder.]
yeah. it's irony.
suddenly you're not so fascinating. [he leaves.]
prioritize wilson. is that what you really want to torture me about right now?
yeah. whining on someone's couch. that's an excellent use of my time. maybe i'll discover that my childhood wasn't perfect.
not much credit to take because i'm not going back.
[fiddling with his phone] delete contact.
don't beat yourself up. i'm not going back because it doesn't work. [he enters the elevator and pushes the key to confirm the delete.]
i will give you 30 reasons one for each pound that cause the apnea which enflamed the epiglottis. why is our rainbow coalition missing brown and bi?
reason 31 — whatever whacked the husband’s heart is also whacking her airway and… oh good. i thought maybe kutner was home nursing the rib you broke when you elbowed your way in for credit on the last patient.
interesting. not about the patient. that was kinda dull. i thought maybe you were lying to cover for kutner which sounds noble. except you’re doing it out of guilt instead of love.
would have jumped to the husband and finished off him and his lame immune system.
start her on iv fluids and acyclovir.
how sweet. they can die together instead of separately 40 years apart.
or he could have just had an adrenaline surge when he saw his chance to hit the singles market. send her home.
i thought she was just flirting with me. [mother gives him a look and daughter stares blankly at him.] i can fix it but it’s gonna cost you… $3.75. i’m not just gonna give you my coffee. [he hands his cup to the daughter.] think of it as costa rican sober juice.
that little minty scent hiding beneath the rose petal perfume and the cherry blossom moisturizer and the morning dew hair spray. you sneak into mommy’s bathroom and gulp some of her mouthwash?
you spit it out?
win some lose some. and strictly speaking since he’s not my patient win some. look at the time. it’s half past “taub was lying about kutner.”
find out what or who he’s doing. either way cuddy’s gonna want me to write it under “reason for termination.”
he didn’t say anything? to any of you? family problems? bad relationship? financial pressures?
parents are ancient history.
he didn’t slit his wrists and… peacefully drift away. he shot himself. he didn’t leave a note. that means panic. which could have been preempted if the idiots who worked alongside him for 80 hours a week had seen this coming.
[shakes head slightly] just trying to figure it out.
no. 25% of suicidal people have friends who didn’t notice anything and don’t want to feel guilty.
you can’t be in denial about kutner and the husband.
well call the tabloids. tell them you just witnessed the miracle of slightly increased kidney function.
and the next one too? the one after that? how many files till it’s okay that kutner’s dead? [pause] cardiac enzymes means she didn’t have a heart attack. no vision problems means no mitochondrial disease.
polyserositis fits. start her on indomethacin. [he heads for his office followed by cuddy.]
i’m fine. despite what wilson will say.
pretty sure he has mah-jongg tuesday mornings. i assume he thinks i will work through this better if i don’t have to keep flicking his wings off my shoulder.
i know his fantasy football team cratered. figured he’d gotten over it.
thanks. but it’s not my loss.
patient’s membranes aren’t gonna heal themselves.
i’ll join you. [he takes a vicodin.]
it was his name. he was conflicted didn’t know where he fit in being ripped out of his world and stuck into yours.
it’s hard to still be lawrence choudhary when everyone sees you as lawrence kutner.
then you should have said no.
all his anglo name gave him was the illusion that he was someone he wasn’t. you were being emotional not rational. you didn’t understand him.
you wanted to make him happy by shutting out his pain. when he looked happy you assumed the pain had gone. it just got buried deeper leaving him tormented about who he was until finally he put a bullet —
i’m sorry about your son.
you haven’t asked if i learned anything relevant from the kutners.
or you’re afraid there is something relevant. which would mean you could have saved him.
good thing you got some. or you’d have tried again and gotten it right.
if it doesn’t fit any diagnosis it just leaves one diagnosis.
i’m dr. house. you have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. his heart is too weak. yours is too strong. good news is it’s fixable. we induce a massive heart attack and kill off the extra muscle.
it’s only dangerous if your heart is normal size. but since all the —
no. this is actually very annoying and i’m getting really bored of lying to patients to scare them into telling me the truth. [to eddie] she’s faking. and yes if she keeps faking i’m going to eventually do something that will kill her.
that was real. treatment made her better. but good for her was bad for you which was bad for her. so she made herself bad. it’s all so simple. she figured the sicker she was the longer you’d hang on.
oh please. people hate reruns.
what you pinky swear or you just plain swear? because —
she can’t.
so what can shred an epiglottis and make muscle disappear?
mourning period’s over. foreman’s sense of irony is back. i was wrong about the ethnic reason. step one — change your name back. step two — if step one fails — move to bangalore. step fourteen if step thirteen doesn’t work kill yourself.
i’ve been polite to the friends i’ve called. all of whom were useless.
tomato tomah-to.
[to foreman and thirteen] you two stick her in an mri. confirm ms. [to taub] and you run the echo on eddie that you’re planning to do behind my back to see if his heart’s improving.
did you let me hire a pervert?
kutner’s police background check from when he started. he was charged with indecent exposure.
if he thought like me he would know that living in misery sucks marginally less than dying in it.
it’s only violating it if you find something. good to see you.
he was hiding. why?
[reading a card in a trophy case] “colonial warrior blaster. number one one.” he spent months tracking this down. he had passions.
he hung the bad with the good. [looking photos in a twin frame — baby kutner with his biological parents and him graduating college with his adoptive ones.] his loss beside a reminder of what he’d gained. means he was open about the pain. should mean that if it got worse he had no reason to hide it.
what am i missing? [to wilson] you’ve got that look. you figured this out.
what if i didn’t miss anything ‘cause there’s nothing to miss? he didn’t kill himself. he was murdered.
took up cuddy’s offer of time off. normal thyroid means no hepatitis.
her muscles wouldn’t have atrophied. you run the echo on the husband?
i prefer the less subtle answer: you were right house. so… less time proving why hubby isn’t dead more time proving why kutner is. [he turns the white board which around to face them.] motives for murder.
they investigated what they saw not what they didn’t saw. talk to friends classmates pizza delivery guy. and draft foreman. he can make calls through his tears.
is that “no i’m not calling my boyfriend who apparently called my boss instead of me to say he wasn’t coming in?” ‘cause it’s really not fair to have that much subtext in one syllable.
you’re not remotely curious?
she could have alpha-1 anti-trypsin deficiency. run her aat proteins.
it wasn’t hard to figure out that his password was kutner. he did what they tell you not to do.
but his parents were. and the guy who killed them is coming up for parole.
kutner testified at every one of his hearings. the guy wouldn’t be the first to see the clock ticking.
which he bought years ago obviously for self-defense.
right. the murderer would never try to make it look like suicide. that would be unethical. [cuddy stands up to leave] you haven’t asked about my patient.
means you checked up to see that i’m still on it. you wanna transfer the case but you won’t because you think it’s the only thing that’s holding me together. relax. either i’m right or i’m wrong. we’ll know soon enough.
so thanks to her idiotic move she’s dead in 24 hours if she doesn’t get a new liver.
how does that disagree with what i just said?
what do you know. it is myelofibrosis. [he starts writing on the paper.] says so right here. who wants to tell cuddy?
just twice.
i don’t quite see how that’s relevant. [his pager goes off. he checks it.] cheese it. it’s the coppers.
technically he’s not our patient. so i’m really only leaving her to die.
absolutely. [he goes to his desk and picks up his phone] don’t worry. this is why god gave me two ears.
wow. if only he were here to say that. i’m sure cuddy would be bound to fall for the old “hey the dead guy won’t mind if we’re wasting —”
need an incurable romantic to talk to an incurable romantic.
you deduced that by removing your sunglasses to the strains of a who song?
[shows cameron two films. he points at the first one] needs a liver. has a liver. [he points at the second film.] he can make a partial donation. the faster he agrees the faster she gets to not die.
nice symmetry huh?
if he’s gonna do this he’s gonna do this for love. i though he should talk to someone who spoke the language.
only if he said no. but your urgent hovering means he said yes.
or you sprinkled too much wishful thinking in your tea.
go back to the er. my thanks to you and your cold feet.
except you’re wrong.
the guy who killed kutner’s parents died of an aneurism two months ago.
bad news. love can’t save you. on the other hand mold can. [he hooks a stool with his cane rolls it to the bedside and sits.] your heart failure was caused by a fungal infection called cardiac blastomycosis. it started as nodules in your lungs which every doc except one mistook for cancer. it’s very rare very curable. i’m starting you on itraconazole.
your emotional state bumped your catecholamines which helped raise your prolactin.
three months of treatment you’ll be back to your buff chiseled self.
but you’d be trading the certainty that you’ll live for the uncertainty that she’ll live.
now you get to be nicer to your next wife.
i was yesterday too.
not really. not legally.
the idiot is gonna do this with or without us. this way we can protect the organ.
so we strap him to the bed wait till his wife dies?
i should fire you.
and a full two or three hours to figure it out.
she would have lung issues.
no skin or gi problems. [he sighs] what is she hiding?
[angry] either we have all the clues and we’re idiots or we don’t have all the clues.
both.
bad lie. did you really think the beaches in hawaii were just like the beaches in rio? the disease bearing sand flies are completely different.
who’d you go with?
i don’t actually need to know who it was. i just need to know that you went so we can know that you have visceral leishmaniasis. but since lancelot there was ready to die for you he might want the answer to both.
[to taub on his way out] start her on antimony and have cuddy find her a liver. [he looks back at eddie who is trying to come to grips with this information.] they were ready to die. but for guilt not love.
no you weren’t.
and you’re romanticizing. again.
no one saw it coming.
unless you feel there’s more to do here to cure me don’t you have a funeral to go to?
interesting. almost as interesting as you trying to step into kutner’s shoes just days after he stepped out of them.
now who’s trying to get her hybrid waxed? we need to do a vestibular caloric test. see if the balance problem starts above or below the neck. [the team starts to get up.] and when i say “we” i mean “you.” you’re the one with the favor to repay not them.
cameron just brought me a case.
i say it’s not my grindstone she’s after. and not her nose she wants on it. she and chase are practically living together. what did you just order?
since when do you pass on the swine? and wheat toast? might as well eat a sheet of sandpaper.
your bro’s nurse not lovin’ the love handles?
he’s no longer on my team. i’m sorry he’s no longer on my team. nothing else to talk about.
[displaying the watch] five functions including a stopwatch to time how long it takes you to ask me if i’m okay.
not hungry. [he takes a vicodin.]
she changed her shoes. if he was faking he’d have vomited on the other side of the bed.
do a holter and a carotid doppler. see if his heart skips for more than the spotted owl. [the team turns to leave] although i didn’t say “we.” if i had… {cameron leaves instead.]
nice. i’m hooked. you can get back to your shift at the er. except as far as the er is concerned you’re on vacation right?
explains why you ditched chase and came to differentials not why you ran the tests.
well i’m not your boss as you usually take great pleasure in pointing out. hey you don’t still have the hots for me do you?
was florence nightingale. yeah. you’re gonna nurse us back to spiritual and mental oneness. that would make sense if we were having this conversation a week ago.
the problem is i think neither. because neither makes sense. the only thing that does… doesn’t.
what she said.
it could if cameron hadn’t already ct’d his head. empty as her boyfriend’s calendar.
[at the same time] not sure yet.
better theory than he’s faking it. the clogs have it. do a lumbar puncture to confirm ms.
god i hope that’s a euphemism.
i’m trying to figure out what that could be a euphemism for. [taub sighs] you’ll find a way. [cameron sighs]
sorry i’m just the zone delivery guy.
his history said the environmental kamikaze was single.
yeah. no worries there.
you must really love your husband and travel by rickshaw. it only took you 18 hours to get here. [he puts a forkful of wilson’s lunch in his mouth and makes a very disgusted face.] who eats kale? it’s so bland it doesn’t even taste like kale.
i have no idea. i know he’s an idiot. and now i’ve learned that he’s a liar. so we’re making a — [as he gets ready to toss wilson’s lunch in the trash he stops and stares at it.] who told you i was in here?
i got it figured out.
[indicating cameron] i was talking to her. you’re not even supposed to be here.
what? oh i don’t care what you do with him. you’re not doing a favor for a doctor in philly. you’re doing a favor for an oncologist in north jersey.
spying preemptive grief counseling.
good points. also doesn’t explain the diet.
nothing. meet mrs. environmental nutbag. or did you keep your maiden name?
yep. got a kid too. double threat. eco-freak and deadbeat dad.
it’s not just a spasm. it’s swollen. [he pushes on the bulges which make a slight crinkly sound.] crunchy.
so what causes loss of balance pathological hiccups and a hole in his gloria steinem?
no. his a.c.e. levels were normal.
start him on iv methyl-prednisolone for systemic sclerosis. do a full work-up to confirm.
without yourself. [to the team] grab a bat. [to cameron] grab some pine. time to bring in the first string.
you obviously want to be here. i can’t figure out why. i wanna see where you go when you can’t be here. [he watches her leave.]
didn’t ask you to dinner.
hmmm. inviting me to search your kitchen. means that you know that i’d find nothing. or that you know i’d find something so you’re hoping that i’m going to assume the former and i won’t bother to look. [he heads into the kitchen]
your single omelet theory conveniently overlooks the grassy knoll you had for lunch today. vegetable and grain gag-athon.
you’re not getting any fatter. your medical records were clean.
you’re alone tonight so it’s kutner.
your patients live your patients die. you float above it all like a medical colossus. but a fellow doctor dies…
mortality is mortality.
stuff you haven’t eaten just proves you haven’t eaten it.
i assume they were checking for vascular pulsations. either it’s negative or he’s a big wuss.
[winces and hold the phone away from his ear] metabolic bone disease?
that explains the pain. odds are it’s a subclinical infection that we made worse with the steroids we gave him. start him on iv antibiotics. x-ray his legs to confirm osteomyelitis.
the infection obviously flared. do ‘em again. [he closes his phone to the sound of doug still screaming.]
[drinking something to wash down the pill] which leaves cancer.
which means it’s not bone cancer.
tell chase to repair the break. you two prep him for chemo.
nope. i wanna blast him for with chemo for a cancer that explains the symptoms.
still enjoying your day off i see.
the more interesting question is why do you care?
what i mean is why do you care from here? you can monitor the patient from home. what’s the difference between here and home?
any other differences? hmm… there’s less medical equipment more training bras and more vegemite sandwiches. actually technically right now chase is here. but that’s because i called him and you didn’t know that. and it’s irrelevant to my point. which is… you and chase are over.
you decided that his single drawer of clothes is one drawer too many. but you don’t have the guts to tell him. so… you’re emotionally walking away instead of actually walking away. which is stupid ‘cause only one of those is good for your heart.
and you want to say no. so i circle right back to his single drawer of clothes —
oh.
you guys have a hot tub?
she must go to the gym a lot.
then maybe when you travel on business you zip on down to that complimentary hotel spa.
sorry did you just say yes?
sorry. i’m sure she’s got a medical crisis. and i need more time to figure out some leading questions for your wife.
she doesn’t want back on my team and she doesn’t want to jump me.
wha wha wha what? you ask a question. i rule out two possibilities and you’re satisfied? that means you don’t want an answer. you just wanted to know there wasn’t a particular answer. either you were worried that she wanted back on my team or you were worried that she wanted back on me.
could be. a lot of stds hang in the balance. [he turns back to the door but cuddy has left. he sighs.] i give up. vinegar compresses four times a day. any chance i could just leave it at that? [the husband glares.] no. pseudomonas folliculitis. it’s a skin infection from crowded and contaminated hot tubs which you obviously use but not with your husband. [the wife looks guilty. house whispers to her] tried to help a sister out.
means it’s gotta be cancer.
biopsies can be wrong. symptoms can’t.
sure you can. prep him for total body irradiation.
not unless you think the cancer’s cleverly hiding outside his body.
[getting in the elevator] you’d rather do nothing just let him die on his own?
[thinks] his idea is better. pour away.
i lost my mojo.
i was clueless about kutner. i was wrong about cameron. taub just came up with an idea that i should have seen long before he did.
and i have no idea why you’re eating carrots.
i’m losing my mind. all you got to say is “good”?
loss of balance. pathological hiccups. air leak between the lungs. broken femur. now tachycardia. go! [silence] come on give me something. give me a bad idea. maybe i can turn it into a good one. [silence] fine. open him up and put in a defibrillator.
redo all the tests. in the meantime open him up put in a defibrillator so he can live long enough for you to finish the tests. [the team leaves.]
balance organs nerves lungs bones heart.
[sits on steps with a sigh] there’s no sign of infection. it’s not a metabolic or autoimmune disease. it’s definitely not cancer. i think.
[indicating the vending machine] aren’t you going to pick?
you already put your money in. you never do that until you decide.
there’s nothing healthy in that machine.
gummi bears. you hate gummi bears.
no. and more importantly i hate them.
you manipulative bitch. [wilson’s smile gets much broader.] you’re not suddenly eating healthy because you want to. you’re eating healthy because you know i don’t want to. i’ve been mooching food for ten years. [he stands.] now either it suddenly started bothering you this week or you’re —
[admiringly] you manipulative bitch.
[entering] hi! got a few questions.
a hopefully pointless medical procedure. your life and my mojo hang in the balance. pesticides are evil which means that commercial flowers are doused in evil. but plant life is nature’s answer to evil. so you have a garden.
a window box then.
[grasping at a straw] potted plants?
yeah yeah. they’re evil. yeah got it.
[to taub] your marriage sucks.
all marriages suck. [to doug and franni] your marriage sucks.
he loves a tree in oregon more than he loves you. but he can’t have sex with it. unless it’s that slutty oak outside portland.
she’s had enough. she’s gonna leave. or maybe she’s jut not putting out. whatever. you gotta make it right right away. you gotta compromise that precious flower principle.
roses? [doug nods.] yes. you have sporotrichosis. it’s an infection from the thorn of the rose which by any other name is still a cheap marital aid.
lesion on your eighth cranial nerve knocks out your balance. another on your phrenic nerve gives you serial hiccups. we then spread it to your bones and heart with steroids and insulin-like growth factor.
it’s good news for him. it’s good news for future generations. it’s crappy news for you. he’s gonna be fine. and he’ll never doubt himself again.
damn. i was hoping i would interrupt something. [he closes the door on the patient and tosses a file on the exam table.] your favor’s repaid. patient’s cured. he’s already packing for another earth day extravaganza next week.
people only change after trauma if they wanted to change before the trauma. or if they’ve watched too many afterschool specials.
i’m talking about you. you lost husband number one. no surprise that the death of a colleague would make you question another long-term lease.
absolutely. you want him to dump you. it’s totally different. much less guilt. either way you’re out of reasons to avoid him. kutner was a pretty dumb one to begin with. [he leaves closing the door behind him.]
[without opening his eyes] that insight would be a lot more impressive if you weren’t just a product of my exhausted brain.
curious why no french maid’s outfit. no spanky pants.
it’s insomnia. four nights without rem sleep can cause—
probably just my secret and very unconscious desire to get wilson into my bedroom.
who cares why you’re here. a decent night’s sleep you won’t be.
addictive substances are no substitute for nature’s healing balm. [he takes a vicodin] make this fast. i need to sleep.
exploding head syndrome. cool. well obviously his brain knows how to hear.
[glances at her then back at the chart] mom’s signature’s on everything. did dad die?
so we’re left with temporal lobe seizure.
could have just looked like a bad shot to the leg. put him in the seizure lab. see if his head blows up all over again.
i need a scrip for sleeping pills. my neighbor’s dog’s been keeping me awake and seems strangely invulnerable to poison. [wilson puts the file on the table and goes to his desk.] why is the soon-to-be-second-prettiest dr. chase here?
wedding in two weeks? i’d say you were pregnant but i don’t think chase’s body is mature enough to produce sperm.
interesting case?
ho! no wonder his prostate’s enlarged. it’s full of pool cues and cigars. [the folder holds flyers from various venues.]
no retired ministers available to plan it?
so she says. luckily there are people in this world ready to stand up for what’s right.
listen. there are two things i do well. bachelor parties rank… towards the top.
the limp leading the blind.
so exploding head syndrome plus vision loss.
[grabbing the bottle] knock yourselves out. [he goes into one of the treatment rooms shuts the door and leans against it.] how did i know he was gonna go blind? [nothing] don’t get cute gazoo. you’re in my mind. you’re obviously there.
that’s a lot clearer than “the limp leading the blind.”
it was a long shot. i don’t even remember the c-reactive protein level.
how high is k2?
me neither. but i read a book about it years ago. fierce sexy sherpa on the cover bending over—
cool. an all-access pass to my own brain.
why?
what does it look like i’m doing? fighting the power.
feel that? how cool is that? [foreman and ellie watch annoyed.] apparently your mom doesn’t care what you’re missing.
[removing the glasses and turning off the boom box] it’s a new symptom. neuropathy.
case got interesting.
like the zoo. except you can bang on the glass as much as you want.
good question.
tell me about it.
juggling. no pins. three pins. patient was pinned in his last three matches. leading up to that he was 15 and 0. i figured his balance was off from diminished sensation.
that we missed on the head ct?
he just went up a weight class three months ago.
actually increased icp could make sense.
i was processing.
his deafness. what if it was caused by nf2 cancer instead of his childhood meningitis?
or a byproduct of the cancer suppressing his immune system. mri his head.
you two… doing anything?
slight bowing in the wall of the fourth ventricle could still indicate a tumor.
you’re not on the guest list. bachelor parties are an ancient and sacred male rite of passage.
she’s the one that got me hooked in with madoff.
yeah by all means abandon a great diagnostic theory because it’s difficult to prove. do a biopsy. we need to take a better look at his fourth ventricle.
[exhales] okay. [he gathers up seth’s films.]
[entering] my patient’s brain now… versus three years ago. [he puts films on the light board.] see any difference? [to chase] is he telling you to avoid the party?
sure. don’t come. if you want your wedding vows to be meaningless.
you are going to commit to that one special woman forever. which is beautiful. but if your commitment the day after the wedding is the same as your commitment the day before then the wedding meant nothing. so and i see no logical way around this if you want your marriage to matter you have to be a wanton trolling muck-covered pig the day before.
evidence of nf2 right?
[opening the door] that whole thing with the duck was hardly unexpected.
okay.
why go back to that well? in the nine years since wilson’s party a whole new generation of hot girls have been abused by their stepfathers.
what made you remember the stripper loved cats?
[turning on the intercom with his cane] just rehearsing for the revival of evita. what’d you find?
he’s okay with that.
[thinks then turns on intercom] why are you closing? supposed to put in a cochlear implant.
really? well someone must have screwed up. i’ll go track it down.
that’s a great idea. let the kid spend more time under anesthesia with his skull cracked open.
i have been known to lie to serve my own agenda. an implant does absolutely nothing to help me diagnose him.
if he still doesn’t want it after having time to adjust i’ll take it out. i’ll blind him too if he wants to experience that culture.
kid’s just had brain surgery. he’s not stable.
no problem. [to ellie] you’re not mad.
not mad enough. you wanted your son to hear. you just didn’t have the guts to make him get the implant.
because he is ignorant and he’s being raised by an idiot.
[shouting] my patient is opting into a handicap! it’s an insult to all the other gimps out there.
that’s the arrangement? [she nods slightly] okay.
yeah about that…
i’m not sure. [they enter the elevator] i’m not even sure why we did it.
to you maybe.
huh. i figured by now you’d be at the board in your monocle and jodhpurs.
why did i give a human being the power of hearing? you ask god the same question he’ll give you the same answer.
i agree.
keep making decisions like that. it really bolsters the illusion that you’re in charge.
why aren’t you in my office?
i did something insane and you’re not all over me analyzing why.
i gave that idiot an implant to prove to him what an idiot he’s been. how is that nice?
i know.
[opening the door] what choice do i have? [he and amber leave]
not before hosing epstein-barr off the table. now eat up. we’re gonna pick out the ice cream flavors for the bachelor party. [he sticks a spoon in each container. they each taste some.]
well it would be stupid if it tasted like bourbon. that’s the brown one.
flash frozen in a secret process. guy figured it out in his basement. [he swallows a spoonful of yellow ice cream] limoncello. genius.
[long pause] it’s his heart. [he looks at the team. they’re back to normal] run a 12-lead ekg watch him for four hours. foreman concurs.
what the hell just happened? everything started to fade away.
is your eyesight better than mine?
excellent topic choice. surgery’s so boring and my lying to you is just so yesterday.
but you on the other hand—
so… i need to cancel the fart band?
spoken like a true aussie. by the way if you know where i can get me the sheet music to waltzing matilda… [chase starts to leave] hey. want some ice cream? we’re having a sundae bar. [he tosses chase a pint.]
sundae or bar?
with a “k.”
[burps loudly] and then i have a clever response. [he opens another can.]
the heart was fine during this test. the arrhythmia’s hiding.
or the arrhythmia is hiding. we need to stress him. put the patient on a treadmill.
i value your opinion. i value rejecting your opinion.
cuddy doesn’t actually want you in charge. she just wants to avoid a lawsuit and to win an naacp award.
how do we get him into the stress lab without foreman’s sign-off.
focus. the lab simulates stress. what if it’s not simulated?
that’s a tough sell since she never leaves the room for more than five minutes.
revealing the arrhythmia. [whispers] nice idea.
look at that. arrhythmia.
the correct phrasing would be “i should always listen to you.”
go.
you sure i did this at wilson’s party?
and it worked?
explains my lack of eyebrows by the end of the evening. [he lights the first glass and lifts it] by the power of greyskull i—
[trying to stay ahead of the flames] not right now!
are you going somewhere with this? because this feels—
[has finally put out the fire. he thinks] heat. see if you hadn’t been here that would have just popped into my head. which actually would have been way cooler. [he takes out his phone and dials] foreman. the kid’s got uhthoff phenomenon. which means it’s ms. start him on double-dose interferon. [he hangs up]
not before i’ve added “chemical burns” to this guy’s cause of death.
allow me to welcome you to the best night of your life. [he pours the flaming alcohol into a tumbler.]
now ah a few ground rules for the evening. uh safety is job one. we’ve now gone for 18 days without an injury in the workplace. [the door opens and wilson slowly walks in. he looks around while house speaks. foreman and thirteen clink glasses and drink.] uh yes these girls are all working their way through law school. don’t test them.
[smiling as he leans past the glasses so he can see wilson] i knew you couldn’t stay away.
clearly reality begs to differ.
out back somewhere.
eh. i kinda like it in here.
and the blindness and neuropathy and arrhythmia and anything else we did. [they drink] what exactly did my team do?
use the other bathroom. it’s in the kitchen. looks like a sink.
is he okay?
[quietly] okay. [long pause] i knew that chase was allergic to strawberries didn’t i? [amber shrugs slightly] that’s why you wanted karamel at this party.
i knew about her body butter. i knew about his strawberry allergy. i tried to kill chase. why would i do that? i don’t want cameron.
hello. [pause] you confirm? [pause] thanks. [hangs up] that kid we saved… he’s dying. it’s not ms. we were wrong.
i need to sleep. [he enters the apartment and closes the door in amber’s face.]
you tried to kill chase. i need to push you back down. you’re dangerous. [his cell phone rings]
not answering. [he answers on the second ring] hello?
foreman’s dying patient.
it’s not eosinophilic pneumonitis. i gotta crash.
i can’t.
good night. [he hangs up and picks up his cane.]
i need sleeping pills. i was gonna hit up wilson but he’s not answering his phone.
[looks at amber guiltily] pills.
it wasn’t eosinophilic pneumonitis was it?
good.
i haven’t slept through the night since kutner killed himself.
you tried to kill chase.
no you don’t. i acknowledge my subconscious exists. now go away.
i’m taking a personal day.
i love ballet but as someone may have mentioned i’m taking a personal day.
[following foreman into the vestibule] hold on.
std?
no.
what about a pulmonary contusion?
b.u.n. and creatinine are elevated but within range…
dehydration could hide an infection. go treat her for the obvious. iv fluids and antibiotics for the pneumonia.
well now it’s open for a reason. we need to talk.
then you’ll obviously need a moment to process.
i’m hallucinating.
i need you to sit in on my differentials double-check everything i do.
it’s gotta be sleep apnea. i get a good night’s sleep and i still feel exhausted. lack of delta sleep can lead to hallucinations.
i don’t think so.
no.
nope.
yeah! that one!
enough! [both amber and wilson stop talking.] don’t give me the look. i told you i was hallucinating.
someone who’s not actually here. beyond that seems irrelevant.
kutner.
you gonna help me or not?
[to wilson] can’t sleep with you here.
do you see someone standing beside me?
then no. [amber is standing next to him.]
so run a test to confirm it’s pneumonia.
trans-tracheal aspiration.
regular radical me radical or me out of my mind radical?
so what’s the problem?
no. our patient can’t breathe. either do the test or come up with a better one. [foreman leaves. house hands wilson a list on the back of an envelope] so we’re down to infection trauma ms schizophrenia pills.
that’s why it’s further down the list. we can confirm an infection with a simple blood test.
[handing a blood drawing kit to wilson] can’t do this on my own.
focus on the lungs.
we know it’s not lung cancer. it could be a liver tumor eats through to the lungs. get an ultrasound of her liver. if you find masses get a biopsy.
i don’t think it is a symptom. i think we caused it.
i prescribed antibiotics.
yeah well maybe this is the one. get swabs of her old skin to confirm.
where the hell were you?
ballerina has toxic epidermal necrolysis.
about to be.
i feel guilty.
i have no reason to feel guilty. it doesn’t make any sense. unless there’s something wrong in the limbic area of my brain.
it’s consistent with ms. and since the blood tests were negative… i have to apologize. if i feel better then you’re right i was feeling an emotion. if i feel nothing it means my limbic brain is shot.
i’m doctor house. anyone explain to you your status?
i’m sorry. i treated you for an infection before confirming that you had one. that’s why you lost your skin. i know you’re in pain. i know that i caused it. i’m sorry.
[thinks then shakes his head] nothing.
i meant it. did you do a liver biopsy to confirm?
i think skinless women are hot. do a trans-jugular liver biopsy. if she bleeds at least it stays in her veins. [he looks at wilson]
no. [foreman leaves] i felt nothing. it’s ms.
in order to make you feel better.
you were looking for cancer. i thought it would be helpful for [he gestures toward wilson]
yes. which you reported to me five seconds ago. thought i’d let him finish his hors d’oeuvres before getting the bouncer to take care of him.
no!
wilson. get out.
do i need your approval to throw you out? [wilson leaves] you happy now?
are you saying we should kill her?
if we stopped her heart we could get our pictures and then restart it.
then she stays dead.
yeah.
we’re gonna stop her heart so i can mri it. i think it was her idea. pneumonia was her idea and almost killed my patient.
kutner was secretly a woman. that’s why he killed himself. [wilson waits] it’s amber.
yeah. the irrational part of my brain works like the rational part of yours. how about that.
who cares? i’ve got competing ideas. they can’t both be right.
so is it regular radical me radical or me out of my mind radical?
nothing that anyone in my head has come up with.
great. [starts to leave turns back] you get the lp results back?
i need the pills.
it could still be schizophrenia.
i know.
i’d prefer something that could actually work.
don’t give me the cancer voice that overly earnest tone.
worse? double-death?
i have an idea.
insulin shock.
could work.
i’ve had no diarrhea no sweating no vomiting. none of the symptoms of vicodin overdose.
i’ve been popping pills for years. i’ve only been seeing things for days. something changed.
so we’re no longer dealing in absolutes.
actually if you could be up here in two that’d be really helpful.
because i’m about to put myself into insulin shock.
you’re only scared because you know this is going to work. [he injects the insulin in his left forearm]
yes. [he begins to seize.]
it worked. where are my pants?
she’s been everywhere i’ve been for days. [house sits on the edge of the gurney with his (scarless) right thigh showing. he pulls on his pants while wilson tosses his jeans on the gurney.] she’s not here ergo…
now who’s being biased? you wanted me to detox as much as i wanted… [stops dressing] forgot how to do my zipper.
you don’t seem to annoy me as usual. i’m not sure that’s a deficit. [zips pants] and i’m all better.
absolutely. i can feel myself repressing all kinds of icky things. i check out don’t i? [wilson shrugs as house’s beeper goes off. he checks it] damn.
any brain damage?
obviously had more time.
i assume we can’t kill her again and take more pictures.
good one.
see the problem with speculation is you make a speck out of you and some guy named “lation” which really doesn’t affect me at all.
which just leaves…
i don’t know yet.
nothing changes. [pause] i just had an epiphany. all by myself. popped into my head out of nothing.
he’s too devoted.
right. i’m being cynical. people can care because they care not because they cheated. theoretically true. but gonorrhea fits better.
tested her blood.
that’s not where her problem is. gonorrhea disseminated to her heart. got walled off in an abscess it’d be invisible.
no need to test her again when we can check prince charming. once you confirm cut the abscess out of her heart.
thank you molly. and another beer when you get the chance. i’m celebrating.
thank goodness. [mmmbop is heard. house pulls out his cell phone.] don’t tell me i was right.
and everyone’s a winner.
don’t think so.
lying would fit too.
i saw guilt in him. if he’s not actually guilty then i wasn’t right. i was lucky.
and if i was just lucky…
wilson. come get me.
thanks.
how many shirts do i need?
it’s probably foreman.
patient okay?
why don’t i feel scared?
i feel like crap. my life if falling apart but i don’t feel scared. not of the rehab anyway.
it won’t work.
what do i do if my only option won’t work?
hmm. it’s either that or electroshock every six hours. good night wilson.
i quit.
you can go suckle the little bastard child who makes you feel good about yourself.
i’m hallucinating.
ruled out everything else.
i’ll cheat scam find some way to keep using.
these people don’t know me. you do.
i need you.
yeah. that’ll be better. [he watches her leave then leans across the couch to open a decorative box on the end table.]
[his eyes are watering. he’s shivering. his hand has a major tremor. he can barely speak.] coffee cup. on the top shelf.
there’s more.
my shoes in the closet.
false alarm.
that’s your advice? drink this?
you know what would calm the nausea? vicodin. marijuana. a coma. [he sees a lone vicodin on the floor past the bath mat.]
too bitter. i already have enough bitter.
no! no!
can you stop? the breathing.
then use your nose.
and after?
and what if i can’t?
you’re telling me what i want to hear. with no evidence.
with no evidence.
neither are you. [cuddy looks surprised.] i’m your hospital’s biggest asset.
that’s why you’re here. that’s why you’re lying to me about…
sure you have. [he props himself up interested in the puzzle] which means that you just said that because you want to tell me what you lied to me about twenty years ago.
am i wrong?
you sat next to me. i cheated off you in the midterm.
why would you…?
we’re alone.
no i mean amber. she’s gone.
thank you.
i always want to kiss you.
clang clang clang went the trolley. ding ding ding hmm hmm hmm. just warning you — i’m in a good mood. and largely pain free. so i have no idea how things are going —
set off by a stroke? or is there a pony in the backyard?
is making life miserable. non-logical thinkers often do.
most people who have this operation don’t even notice they’re missing anything. left brain has language arithmetic rationality. right brain is a mute loser.
yes. and where would junior high be without our ability to judge people on aesthetics?
it’s a universal daisy chain of peace and love that throws buns at people.
good morning sunshine. we got a brand new toy. you wanna play?
great. i love euphemisms. by euphemism i mean when you say something and it means something else. [he closes the file and drops it on the table before following cuddy to his office.] begin eliminating. search the home.
the uh… [he gestures at her high-necked blouse.] isn’t that like locking the barn door after the horse has put his face between your breasts for an hour and a half?
well i’m not normally into role-playing but if you wanna… [he approaches her. she backs up slightly.]
so this isn’t you freaking out over last night.
i slept with cuddy. after she helped me detox from vicodin. i’ve been clean for almost 24 hours now. [wilson stares at him. house waits a moment.] okay. thought i’d mention it. [he gets up to leave.]
that’s what she said. a ha ha ha.
she’s probably got some bruising…
i feel better than i did four hours ago. four hours from now i’ll feel better than this.
clean and sober and hot.
several good options. unfortunately i don’t think she’s gonna give me the pleasure. she left before i woke up and five minutes ago she told me that i’m just an employee.
yes.
you think she jumped me out of pity?
absolutely. [he leaves]
wilson says we need to talk.
i agree. [he takes her picture.] this has clearly gotten past the talking stage. [he leaves pivoting by the door to take two more pictures.]
could be our tax dollars at work constantly building new roadways and bridges. [he puts the lipstick in his jacket pocket.] a meningioma. slow growing. could extend along the subosteal layer of the cranial cavity and be hidden by the bone.
proof.
if i talked she’d have lied. i’d have lied. and though two negatives make a positive i thought thermal-imaging photos seemed simpler. note how many more heated areas appear after less than a minute with me.
don’t talk to her.
manipulation is in your genetic code. you think i’m making a mistake you move in to correct it.
she lied to me. either last night or today. i need to find out which and why.
so far.
and that ladies and gentlemen is the left hemisphere… the side that’s obsessed with finding answers. the one that needs things to make sense. the interpreter. that’s where we tell the story of who we are and why we do things.
i’ll send it tickets to a phillies game.
but he is cold. [he leaves the observation area and goes to scott.] why are you scratching?
ammonia breath. [he opens scott’s gown.] your liver is failing.
[enters also drinking coffee] i want permission to do a liver biopsy. we’re looking for sarcoidosis.
what do you mean fine?
yes. [he puts his coffee cup on the desk]
yes.
i’m blowing off my clinic hours.
think i should stop and let the pain flood back?
quite the opposite.
great advice. you pretend that i’m gonna do that.
didn’t you use to argue that my judgment would be better off drugs? admit it. you’re curious why i want to make her angry.
you’re dying to know what i found in her coffee cup.
oxytocin. [he goes into his office followed by wilson.]
her lips say “no” her hormones say “oh my god yes. more!”
i paid the guy in the gym to retrieve one of her water bottles from the trash.
so i need to make her lose her temper. which breaks her delusion. which demonstrates to me and to her that there’s something underneath this facade.
that’s outcome one. outcome two is she kills me. i think it’s 50/50 right now.
i thought you’d say that.
why is an old guy standing in my doorway?
she sent him. that’s gotta mean something.
nice pants. [he gets up to leave eugene follows him.]
i’m tired of clinic duty. there’s only one thing that could cause squawking right?
more air guitar?
and all the tests came up negative anyway or you would have opened by telling me your brilliant diagnosis.
or pancreatic cancer. go scan his pancreas. and try led zeppelin.
there’s something wrong with this cup.
or you could try making him angry. standard choice number three.
i know how you could succeed.
just say the magic words: “i will destroy my husband’s sperm.” [she gives him a look.] oh you mean succeed without doing that. probably not.
[on his way out the door] if your condo rules don’t let you buy insurance would you go homeless?
what do you think i can fix this? we need to offer this guy something he can only get if he stays in the hospital — relationship counseling.
i mean his two hemispheres. that’s the breakfast of relationships — the most important one of the day. [he opens the door to wilson’s office.] we need your special skills.
say something.
“talk to her.” the well isn’t deep is it?
your right brain likes what he’s saying. hasn’t moved the entire scan.
clotting could be a problem well before a solid tumor forms. it can still be pancreatic.
house.
what?
i assume dr. cuddy gave you this number.
i’m sorry but i’m about to lose you because i’m about to drive into a tunnel in a canyon on an airplane while hanging up the phone. [he hangs up] i might be getting some more phone calls so let’s make it fast.
that’s right pancreatic. i know it’s pancreatic. i know there’s evidence. i know i’ve seen it. i just can’t —
if the cancer’s too small to find let’s make it easier. let’s open him up and paint it. there’s a new procedure using scorpion toxin and infrared paint. paint only works on the cancer cells. makes ‘em easier to spot.
if i’m right about pancreatic cancer the only chance he’s got is finding and removing those cancer cells now.
relax. our friendship is not doomed.
you’re worried that once i’m in a relationship you and me’ll be over.
she look angry?
oh no.
[on the speaker from the observation deck] you weren’t looking up at the right time.
the clots aren’t from cancer. they’re coming from his heart.
not while we were looking. didn’t i open with that? the clots were caused by an arrhythmia.
not while we were looking! [he bangs on the glass of the observation deck.] intermittent arrhythmia. this guy pulls our equipment off at the slightest provocation. we’d have to be watching at the exact moment it happened. which i’m guessing from the way you two are scrambling around like idiots is right now. [chase glances up.] yes. i’m saying do a transesophageal echo.
absolutely. right after the echo.
the heart looked healthy at the last echo and an arrhythmia wouldn’t cause clots in a healthy ventricle. so start with the left atrial appendage.
yep. i did it again. now get this poor guy’s bp under control and seal off the appendage. then all we have to do is find out what damaged his heart before it goes after something he really needs.
so what damages a healthy 20-year-old heart enough to make it send out clots like it’s bombing dresden?
run a dexamethasone suppression test.
why is there no lipstick on this cup? cuddy was wearing lipstick when she drank from it. it was on my face. why isn’t it on the cup?
because in houseland and the rest of the universe by the way when a question presents itself it calls for an answer.
what do i do?
you really think that was the best time to mock me?
i’ve been trying to make her angry for —
attention! i have an announcement. as you go about your day i would like you to be aware of the fact that i slept with lisa cuddy.
i was wondering if we should move in together.
if i’m fired i think that probably means i don’t have to see patients. [he starts to walk away.]
i don’t need your labs. you have acid reflux.
acid splashes on the vocal chords they tense make that squawking sound. it’s completely harmless. i’m gonna give you a prescription and you are gonna go away.
why’d you move your belt?
you didn’t tell me that.
that’s not a potbelly. it’s a tumor. that’s why pancreatic cancer was on my mind. my brain was trying to tell me…
it can cause acid reflux. we should scope you.
no it’s not. [the elevator doors open and taub comes out.]
i’m sure he will half-appreciate the irony. take this man to radiology. pancreatic scan. and stay with him. [he gets on the elevator.]
do you have more than one lipstick in the same shade? maybe one that has a sealing agent and one that doesn’t?
you really don’t think you’re just… overreacting to the other night?
[clearly confused] wha… you… you’re… you’ve been overreacting to something i said?
i quit.
you can go suckle the little bastard child who makes you feel good about yourself.
[blinking and trying to clear his head] no no. that — that’s not what happened. i told you that i needed you. you — you helped me.
[shakily as cuddy touches his cheek] no. i’m not okay.
