patient has spinal muscular atrophy. it's genetic. incurable. this is not a diagnostic mystery.
(curiously suspicious) what enemy?
first thing we have to do is get inside his head.
not talking about the patient. talking about house. he's insane but he's not irresponsible. he wouldn't be playing this game if he didn't already know the answer.
when a person faints it's because they're not getting enough blood to their brain. the act of falling corrects the problem. you faint again strapped into that power chair where you can't fall you might not wake up.
i think when you went to thailand you picked up a threadworm called strongyloides. they usually go up through your feet.
but i assume you did have someone lay you down in the sand. bare back bare legs - increases exposure tenfold over bare feet.
two pills. you'll be all better.
hey! take a number.
don't. (turns back to stark) they'll spend all day obsessing over my idea instead of coming up with one of their own.
but hey i might be wrong.
this is not a new symptom. our patient has spinal muscular atrophy. he has documented trouble swallowing. the choking is not new.
strongyloides worms explain the fainting. we already treated...
hasn't gotten any worse.
wrong again.
no pauses on his ekg no nausea. the treatment worked.
syncope's cured amber. it's over.
the tilt table test showed that the patient's ekg bp and pulse were made normal despite considerable...
my name's in the file.
no it doesn't. we turned the thing up to 95 degrees...
sure. just not as much as actual answers. that's why they are called answers.
tells you i'm hiding everything.
can i finish reporting on the patient?
you did a ct scan?
after you were already proven wrong?
kidney failure could be the result of a gram-negative bacteria. our patient wears a catheter full-time. it virtually guarantees bacterial infection.
patient developed pneumonia. his lungs are filling fast. we started him on antibiotics. nothing. we were wrong.
(picking up the tube) should make you a little more comfortable.
the fluid's clear. if this was cancer there should be blood. call house.
is he okay?
new meds should start helping in minutes. just hang in there.
try and relax.
stop talking. (to jody) hurry up and get that chest tube working?
time of death...
no. we were defeated. it's over.
(tightly) can we at least remove the body before launching into a purely academic exercise?
you okay boy?
i don't know. i think so.
i just put it on the bed tray to get him some water.
(quietly) as soon as the pathologist cut into the lungs we saw the threadworms.
i keep replaying it in my mind. did i drop the pills when i put them on the bed tray? did i knock them over when i turned to leave?
i know.
i know.
(hotly finally meeting his eyes) i know! forget the lecture and fire me already!
i'm fine.
[interjecting] it was my fault. my mistake.
no that was amber.
it's thursday.
you haven't done any digging yet.
we're digging up a grave and you want to chit-chat?
[smiles] no you're not.
yeah i grew up around here.
you had some serious symptoms. the seizures...
who can?
what about a hereditary connection? she's twenty-four. her mother died when she was twenty-five.
[softly] leave it alone.
convincing her that her mother's dead isn't gonna make her better just miserable.
[coming forward] a guy in a wheelchair was here?
she probably just overheard someone talking about it or...
no.
[warily] the man in the wheelchair?
[has enough shouts] let me do it!
[yells] hold her down!
irene. irene?
you were having a nightmare. wasn't real.
no it's okay now. your arm's not...
i'm fine.
when your retina sees something they send electrical signals to your brain. these lenses will pick up those signals.
i appreciate your concern.
[rationalizing] someone must've left it in here.
what's wrong?
lean forward irene. you're gonna aspirate.
you'd need damp grain that had been...
you think she knew what she had and was treating it?
it explains the hallucinations seizures delusions. constricts the blood vessels which explains the necrosis.
[sympathetically] i'm sorry. no.
... planted a dog collar in the procedure room just to screw with my head.
what you don't believe she did it?
no. i...
so am i gone then?
sixty-eight-year-old male non-smoker.
he's not packing.
[from phone] have you considered miller-fisher?
[into phone] she just had another seizure.
[into phone vo] and now she's getting a vertical nystagmus.
[smirks] pop a pill insult us and trick the patient.
does with amyloidosis.
would it hurt the patient if you let us run some tests?
[loudly] yes they've ignored you. they screwed up. and it's fun watching you spank them. but can we get back to the medicine?
there hasn't been a single american case in over twenty years.
nothing's gonna help her. she's got polio.
[to brennan astonished] you poisoned her?
any reports of light-headedness or syncope?
well since he doesn't have a prosthetic heart valve i assume you're thinking he's an iv drug user?
there's also discoloration on the cheeks and forehead.
nasopharyngeal angiofibrosis.
liver failure plus heart block could be a mitochondrial disorder.
what about lyme disease?
it explains everything - the heart issues the internal bleeding even why he'd get better on steroids.
they don't want me here because they think the kid's cured. i don't.
wish i knew. i just know that if dr. house is right(looks over her shoulder) something's gonna go wrong.
well then i'll just waste a few hours watching the surgery.
when were these pictures taken?
well the acanthosis nigricans was already there.
what about around his hairline?
there is now.
you were right about the diagnosis.
no i mean you were right about being wrong.
he's got lyme disease. it explains everything.
all the symptoms fit.
the target rash is hiding!
no one ever looked at him closely enough.
hemorrhagic lesions in the lungs and gut. bronchiolitis obliterans.
could be bacterial meningitis.
is he in there?
why'd you go right for the drug theories?
[nods as if understanding] okay. you're an idiot. either that or you've decided you can trust a smoking addict alone in a bathroom with an oxygen tank.
who gets the eyeball next?
you can't run your test. the patient had massive smoke inhalation. do a bronchoscopy it'll set off a laryngospasm.
you want an invasive surgery because you screwed up?
the patient is an addict. it's not his fault he's jonesing for whatever he can get his hands on.
where's taub?
this is how doctors kill patients. by seeing the stereotype instead of the truth.
[ignoring the tirade] malaria.
malaria's relapsing-recurring. for all we know he could have been sick for years. it explains not just the dic and the bleeding but the tiredness fever.
everything we attributed to drugs.
i didn't ask you to pick up the meds.
you're trying to boost your score by prescribing drugs for house. why else would you have a second bag?
you realize we still have a patient.
do you care about this job more than you care about his life?
[chuckles] okay you're jerking me around. there's no reason to be a doctor if you don't care
kissing up to your boss.
so why do you want the job?
[smiles] good for you.
[to ian] where is he?
hi.
i won't pigeonhole the patients so that means i'm
i think there's more to him than the drugs.
i need a reason for doing something admirable?
or a sinner without a future.
drugs are always a mask for something else.
you think you can talk me into leaving?
shh-shh. i hear him.
w-w-w-wait. malaria's not contagious.
[to the kids] it's okay! it's okay. he's okay.
respiration's good pulse is solid.
but we did find the reason for the dic. bad blood fragments. if we can figure out how they got there
hemolysis from the malaria meds?
so dic was nothing?
he had a bleeding problem. that could cause respiratory arrest.
[defensively] and i had the eyeball.
i don't think so.
[stands shell-shocked] why?
anaphylactic shock.
[quickly] street drugs are laced with all kinds of things. an immune overreaction would explain everything.
you just said i was right about
[studying the patient's chart] it's getting worse. last neurologist found intermittent numbness in both arms as well as the hand paralysis.
[looks up at house] i don't have huntington's.
[cuts kutner off] the point of the game was to scare us. telling us it's over isn't scary therefore he has no reason to say that unless it's true. [leveling house with a challenging gaze house smiles at her and nods]
no.
she's not a liar.
everyone lies but there's an exception to every rule.
the patient's mother died of breast cancer when she was seven and she never even knew her mom was sick. she promised herself she would never hide anything from her own daughter.
she told her co-worker she told her kid.
did you catch her lying?
wouldn't no have been a shorter answer.
maggie already admitted to having multiple sexual partners. which is why we already tested for and ruled out syphilis and any other stds that could have caused her symptoms.
nothing in the ecstasy except ecstasy.
blindness could be a complication from the hemodialysis.
the dialysate composition just indicates <U+0097>
[interrupts] they would have told us if there were any other drugs. you met her she couldn't have been more candid.
that's right. her honesty proves just how dishonest she is.
bad idea. you mind if i tell house you asked them for the key instead of breaking in?
five will be ten. the key's proof she doesn't have anything to hide.
i'm gonna tell him. and who are you so anxious to please?
i'm not the one who's based his entire world view on the proposition. if i'm wrong so what? if he's wrong
nope.
[cuts him off defensively] if i wanted to talk about it why didn't i bring it up?
have you tried leaving it blank?
tough to get into the head of someone who actually trusts people huh? found both computers in an office on a desk they share.
you can't lie about flaccid paralysis.
you don't need her.
then this serves no medical purpose.
you claim to want the truth and then you screw with people who actually live by it. pathetic.
[turns back around and shakes her head] i'm not lying to her.
you like foosball?
you must really like who you got
i know you didn't get house.
it's pathetic.
[firmly] no. you're not.
house. [finally had enough and slams the laptop lip on top of his hand] stop obsessing.
ace levels are too low for sarcoidosis. [stares at him for a moment and then pulls the ribbon]
last round of saline maggie. one more big breath. we've gotta get the liquid to go all the way into your lungs okay? [attaches a syringe to the scope and pushes the saline solution into the tube] here we go.
house obviously gave the present to himself.
[firmly] it's house.
because. that's what house wants us to do.
[interrupts] gaucher disease ttp <U+0097>
tracer could have been inactive.
don't care. you can forget the donor bank there's no caii deficiency. best we can do is make her comfortable.
is that from taub?
[pulls out a gift as well and sighs dropping it onto his desk] merry christmas. who's going to tell the patient she's dying?
nope. you had no choice.
and now i'm choosing not to be mad at you.
cause it will drive house nuts.
[in disbelief softly] that was cold.
that's gotta be a fat deposit.
thirty-eight-year-old female with loss of bladder control blood in her urine and a broken leg from collapsing at her wedding.
[holding out the folder again] cultures were negative for utis. no signs of previous trauma or stds.
ct was clean for tumors and kidney stones.
[cameron-like persistence] her sodium's low. could be endometriosis in the bladder.
she was getting married.
[interrupts] endometriosis fits better than an epiphany that her life is meaningless. we should start her on ais and do a cystoscopy to confirm.
and before six months ago? music business isn't exactly known for its holiness.
your drug use may have caused some long term damage. we're gonna need to take a hair sample to test for latent toxins.
o2 sats are 85. she's hypoxic. we might need to intubate.
pulmonary involvement rules out porphyria.
actually we've been trying to ignore that part of the whiteboard.
[interrupts] maybe she didn't change.
i'm making a point.
how do we know that the real roz isn't who she is now and who she was then? can't we say that her previous life was true without making her present one a fraud?
good symmetrical activity in both hemispheres.
we oversimplify people. it's how the human mind works. everything's on or off. everything's got a... category.
no one can describe themselves in ten words. why would we wanna hear anyone else do it?
do you think maybe you're oversimplifying me now?
[chuckling] you've been working for house for a long time.
i would ask if this was gonna be lunchtime gossip but lucky for me...
mri shows no sign of clots. fmri shows no problem areas.
[mildly outraged] this is why you wanted an fmri?
[into microphone] okay roz. we've got what we need.
roz. you all right?
all through the procedure?
[triumphantly to house] she was praying. could explain the brain activity.
could be systemic sclerosis.
[explaining to yonatan] as the chamber heats up roz's body temperature should also rise making her sweat and turning the powder purple. no change in color means no sweating which means her central nervous system is damaged.
we could have a diagnosis as soon as she comes out of the chamber. it might be better if you stayed.
given the circumstances i think roz would sacrifice modesty to have you with her.
[confused] what? i-i think it's nice that you're here. i think...
her body temperature's stopped climbing.
she's having a seizure! [calling out] need a crash cart!
blankets too! she's freezing!
her white blood cell count was fine.
so you want us to what send the patient home?
i'll run a cortisol stimulation test.
i take it you're feeling better.
your abdomen is little swollen.
it's hard to say. sometimes it can mean a liver issue. we'll have to test.
[calling to a nurse] she's going into shock! i need another liter of saline! type and cross two units!
she's bleeding internally.
we should x-ray for malformations of the rib that could cause arterial twisting.
she doesn't do so well on her feet.
none of the scans picked it up.
what?
[sarcastically] no you're ignoring the big symptom. [to house.] what if we're looking at both the flu and decent parenting?
thirty-one?
elfin appearance?
he's stroking. [taub kutner and thirteen all rush over put the bed down flashlight in the eyes the usual medical stuff.]
it means the patient gets to keep being nice. why does that offend you?
i was thinking if we discount the niceness issue...
[sits down.] i think it's a heart defect.
could be a patent foramen ovale. it explains the stroke and the syncope and a pfo wouldn't show up on a routine echo. i'm gonna do a bubble test. [gets up to leave.]
[sits back down.] sure.
are you giving me a performance review?
i'm gonna do a bubble test. [starts to leave as kutner walks in but stays to hear what he has to say.]
unless your spouse cheated too.
patient's vomiting blood.
if it was just syph he wouldn't be getting worse he's already on penicillin.
liver tests and serologies are going to take a full day.
ggt's normal rules out alcohol.
[to taub.] we're all doing this.
we filled a prescription. [puts a bottle of pills on houses desk. house just stares at them.]
wilson says he's always been a jerk.
so what's going to happen? what's going to change?
how does a fried liver put him into a rage?
i was going to test for a heart issue before the syphilis. pfo could explain the heart attack and reduced blood flow to the brain could explain the rage.
this is not good.
he didn't care.
he didn't vote. he always cared about one thing solving the puzzle but he was irrelevant to that diagnosis. he had no opinion of his own. he now cares about nothing.
any particular reason you decided to sedate a patient for a procedure that's completely painless?
occipital frontal and temporal lobes are clean. so's the optic nerve. definitely no tumors.
and awake.
the hospital's being inspected today.
not us! our dean of medicine. and house hates her. you'd be doing house a favor by complaining.
nothing. i was with him the whole time.
foot numbness has a huge differential.
sorry.
it's not the tongue it's the dialog. i think i dated that nurse though. [house stares at her and taub stares at the nurse on the screen] no.
b6 wouldn't show up on a tox screen and we didn't find anything at the house.
plasmapheresis has risks. we should have him spend the night in the sleep lab. see if he gets a reflex erection.
we're going to close the blinds to give you some privacy. the instruments will let us monitor your response. [the blinds close]
but he figures quitting won't do him any good. figures he'd be unhappy anywhere.
you're pretty happy in this job right?
have you ever had a job where you were miserable?
and were you miserable?
it was a miserable job but you weren't miserable.
not particularly. heart rate and bp are climbing.
there's nothing wrong with his naughty. it's not b6 toxicity. [she looks up and kutner gives a tiny laugh] did he just finish?
his heart rate's through the roof <U+0096> 220 and climbing. [evan groans]
could be some sort of atypical septic reaction.
thus the word atypical.
you were sure about b6 toxicity too.
why? if we're gonna nuke his thyroid
fever rules out autoimmune. he's septic. he's got a massive infaction.
not with the neuropathies in his foot and eyes. what about tetanus? it fits.
you just forgot mine.
i'm not a lesbian.
[reading off one of the files.] twenty-something year-old jane doe. kidney contusion laceration on her leg <U+0096>
we're going to go to the er and do our jobs.
guillain-barr<e9> fits.
you can't just eliminate everything because it doesn't match what you might have seen.
where are you going?
why are you smelling the passengers' clothes?
you split your head open you should rest. [hands him another piece of clothing.] anything?
good now put all your weight on your right leg. [house enters.] the antibiotics are working. it's tm.
what the fact that he's getting better is evidence that we're wrong?
rapid onset. it could be a perforated ulcer.
hallucinations and smells were kind of working right? why the bath?
i don't think i was even born when that movie was out.
that was twenty-eight years ago.
did you just forget what year it is?
and act like a nerve gas stop your heart you'll go to heaven and be omniscient. good idea. not going to happen. [starts closing the lid. house stops her.]
wasn't born yet means i won't be entertained by further reference. [closes the lid as house lies down.]
house. your ear.
wilson's disease.
give him five minutes. brainstorming a few possibilities isn't going to explode his brain.
not if the next stop was at a 90 degree angle into an suv.
high carbs plus exercise is the quickest way to confirm tpp.
up the speed.
we pushed tpa ten minutes ago.
house!
could be anything.
copy it to a thumb drive. let's get out of here.
not even close to relevant.
yeah maybe they're having sex on a pile of asbestos. go watch it. if we were in a stranger's house you'd be watching the video. you altered your behavior because you're friends with her.
we shouldn't be treating her at all.
kutner.
it's amber. i...
hepatic and heart failure could mean antitrypsinase deficiency.
he... told me i was raised by wolves and that's why i use the same hand for my fork and knife.
[realizes her mistake shudders] oh.
[looks at him in surprise] she's not dead.
yeah i am. why aren't you?
[understands] i'm sorry i didn't...
maybe it's an allergic reaction to the interferon.
ultrasound is safer.
[defensively] no wait i can do it.
[choking] you're right. i'm screwing up.
i didn't even like her.
not enough to want her dead.
yeah i'm at risk for huntington's. i've dealt with it.
you are the champion of not dealing with your problems.
you're screwing up this case worse than i am.
we should say good-bye.
