being moronic? mm. if i can only think of a harm-free medical treatment she turned down lately.
(holding up two stuffed animals) which of these says i want to sleep with you more? penguin or beaver? beaver beaver beaver. you're right it's too high school.
(putting the animals back) i can't be romantic?
we're fine. never seen her happier.
i'm... worried.
(walking past wilson and out the door) no because i am.
(turning to face wilson) ironic? weird? crazy?
for now. we're in the honeymoon period. our brains are flooded with endorphins. once she snaps out of it where does that leave us?
name one thing that cuddy and i have in common besides work.
exactly. long-term relationships are based on compatibility and right now we only have sex.
not right away. we'll fight makeup sex fight maybe sex and then she'll dump me. with possible goodbye sex.
i need to find something that we both like doing besides each other.
no then she'll start pretending to like things that she really doesn't just to make me feel better which will make her feel even worse which won't be my fault so i'll resent her and that won't be her fault so she'll resent me. (stopping at an elevator house pushes the call button) at least with my plan i get my one a day with iron till the bitter end. (the elevator door opens and house steps in with wilson right behind him) is there a reason why you're following me?
great. (he pushes aside the curtain with his cane) this won't take long then.
huge jack cannon fan by the way. love your books.
(pulling a lightscope out of his breast pocket) i know. all they care about is who's hotter jack or deacon. like sarah can't love both of them. i may belong to one or two online fan clubs. (he looks into her eyes with the lightscope) how's the new book coming along?
'kay. how about nodding your head to a few yes/no questions?
about anything?
(dropping both their hands) deal. i will have to go with why'd you try to kill yourself? burn on the side of your face is caused by gunpowder so change your mind at the last second or you just a lousy shot?
can't. we had a deal.
okay. (loudly to the whole room) this woman is on a 72-hour psychiatric hold. if she tries to run shoot her. with a sedative if that's more convenient.
a seizure while trying to commit suicide.
what is the matter with you people? we're talking about a human being who's suffering.
you're right. that's not enough. she is also the writer of jack cannon: boy detective beloved by millions around the world.
look the point is if she kills herself millions of fans of all ages and genders will be very disappointed.
no that would be crazy and unprofessional. you're taking this case 'cause i said so. you and taub do a full workup. observe her overnight. see if she has another seizure. (looking at chase) you can go.
because he brought a smokin' hot babe.
yeah nice try but you hate your personal life. (to foreman before he can protest) and you obviously don't have one.
hey. (he pulls a red flower out of his bouquet and hands it to chase who takes it and turns to join the young woman) i'd stay myself but i just bought the flowers. (house leaves taub and foreman to observe alice overnight)
reservation for dominica's isn't till 8:00 so we got plenty of time.
this is a gothic revival masterpiece. i hope one day to live in a house like this.
one of the best. she wants me to read her latest manuscript.
i gave you a couple of her books a few years ago.
ever hear of multitasking?
think i'd take the dean of medicine on a b and e
(to cuddy) well i guess you have your answer.
she's probably illegal. same reason she didn't report the suicide attempt.
and if she whacks herself what happens to your job?
i need to see her latest manuscript.
a writer with back and hand pain. that's very helpful. let's go.
(lifting up the top of the typewriter) true.
before there were hard drives there were... (he holds up the ribbon reels)
how many of these does she eat a day?
you wet the bed. just not sure how yet.
(just entering the room) explains the seizures hand and back pain also the depression.
put some lipstick on chase and start chelation therapy. confirm with another urine test. (the team stares uncertainly at house) okay. i'll go talk to cuddy. maybe she'll let us borrow a dress too. (house leaves the conference room)
ahe<U+0096>ahem.
i'm not the one talking about our relationship at work.
peace penguin.
243. i need some help with alice tanner. she wants a vagina.
i've been busy.
you. so you'll talk her out of it?
you think we just sit around talking sports and belching and farting when the chicks aren't around? (he burps) by when?
next week it is. (he leaves)
it's the new jack cannon novel. suggestions?
people wonder why you've never cured cancer.
eh probably would have been a wiser choice.
i'm a horrible influence.
and not finding them. (wilson sighs)
what was she doing when it happened?
when her bp spiked?
her first symptom was when she had a gun to her head. (peeling off the gloves) excess adrenaline could explain seizures and skyrocketing bp.
get an mri and find it.
would you hold this?
i meant now.
normally i'd say it. maybe this way it'll finally sink in.
she wants to die. you cannot trust anything she says.
we need to make her cooperate. we have to offer her something she wants.
i can work with that.
i want you to write more books.
now don't you say that you dirty birdie. (he places his cane on top of a cabinet) you know there are easier ways to go than shooting yourself in the head or tearing apart a limb. (he pulls a drug bottle and syringe out of his coat pocket) and this is one of them. the best part you'll feel so good you won't even notice you're dead.
(filling the syringe from the bottle) you're the perceptive one. you tell me.
we can't find your tumor in time without your cooperation. so i'm giving you a choice. give us a chance to make you better or stick this anywhere and push. (house holds up the full syringe)
no. i know pain. you think you can handle it and one day you can't. when that happens you either find reasons to go on or you don't.
now. when you're pain free you're gonna want to live and start writing again. and if i'm wrong got a backup plan to take home with you.
good choice. if i were you i'd hide that if you want to keep it.
morning sunshine.
you were supposed to choose life.
wasn't lying about the cure. if we find and remove that pesky adrenaline-secreting tumor you'll get better.
yeah about that it seems that last night you found and self-administered what you thought was a potentially lethal narcotic. your psych hold has been extended an additional 24 hours. i know. bummer right?
sure.
there might be a way to get her symptoms without asking her. if writers write what they know.
and his mentor aunt helen who happens to be around the same age as alice. answers could be in the book.
look for the tumor with the ultrasound.
that's why i prefer lying. it makes things easier.
(to sam) you told him?
it is. patient wants to kill herself.
(excitedly) you're a fannon too?
oh come on. why can't she love them both?
let's say yes.
no. debbie wright is his true love.
presumed! all we really know is<U+0097>
you don't like double dates?
you don't like surprises?
sam reprogrammed the mri to read alice's typewriter ribbon.
cool right?
as your boyfriend i thank you. as your employee i resent you because i need this for my case.
whatever you want.
yeah? and what would that be exactly?
(taking off his glasses and looking up at them) jack cannon is not dead. it's worse. ten books leading up to a final confrontation. she ends it on a cliffhanger. who does that?
she was gonna kill herself. this is the final jack cannon. nothing gets resolved. who's his father? who killed his brother? how'd he get that damn scar on his cheek and why is he obsessed with yo-yos?
yeah. i know why she wanted to kill herself.
his mentor helen rutherford has contracted a serious illness which consists of joint pain fatigue sensitivity to light and depression.
helen dies halfway through the book. shoots herself in the head... to save jack from having to care for her.
can't be lupus.
it isn't curable.
we're not gonna be able to take her pain away. she's still gonna kill herself as soon as she gets released tomorrow. i can't let jack cannon end this way.
retest to confirm. (he leaves his office)
your mom said you loved go-carts.
(looking over at cuddy) you having fun?
whoa.
she hates jews!
that a girl!
hoo hoo hah hah hah!
oh yeah?
yes!
i avenged my lady.
it's not my fault wilson's attracted to psychos.
(having the ah-ha moment about alice) oh... wow.
it was a car crash. not a skiing accident.
screws in your leg.
you damaged your thyroid gland in the crash when the shoulder strap cut into your neck. you don't have lupus. what you have is curable.
i read your book. sucks by the way.
helen rutherford kills herself because she feels useless and doesn't want to be a burden.
just like you do now. you have hypothyroidism. that's why you feel so tired and worn out. with medication you'll feel 20 years younger. or whatever age you were the last time you didn't want to kill yourself.
you can finish the story the right way... the way jack cannon deserves.
i know that he deserves better than what you gave him.
how can i be right and wrong? i deduced the car accident because thyroid fit the symptoms. but a damaged thyroid wouldn't explain the paralysis. how can i be wrong about the thyroid but right about the accident?
i like the way you think kid.
do it.
aw... that's sad. you know what's even sadder? thirteen was the only man on my team.
(to foreman) do it. cuddy wants it to be a girl.
i was talking to chase. i was just looking at you to screw with you.
i'm meditating.
you woke me up for that?
why would she lie about the accident?
everybody has a reason. (he picks up his cane and leaves the office)
she'll be dead in a few days without it.
as your boyfriend i'm grateful for the effort. as your employee i'm disappointed at your ineffectiveness.
(sighing) why would she not tell us about the pins in her leg?
by having her leg ripped off? she wants to punish herself... for something that happened before she was famous before she even started to write. i think the answer's in her old medical records. but dopey sleazy and uptighty can't find them.
your boyfriend is an idiot.
her first name could be helen.
don't bother to get up. you know the way you write jack always made him feel real to me. (putting the file down on the foot of the bed) now i know why.
he's cool but he's awkward. he's brilliant. he makes mistakes. (propping his cane against the bed) he's funny but sometimes he takes it too far. sounds like a great kid.
you weren't alone in the car crash. your son was with you helen.
the books are your way of keeping him alive.
you haven't been at peace since it happened.
no you didn't.
no you don't.
(taking something else out of the file) well that may be true but i've been reviewing your muse's autopsy results. it wasn't the crash that killed him. your son had a brain aneurism. that's why he crashed. he was dead before the impact. there was nothing you could do to save him.
they had no reason to dig any deeper. it was a car accident. i did. (holding up a skull xray) it's easy to miss. (pointing) but you can see the blood buildup here. your son would have died that day on a bus in school sitting on his bed. the only thing the crash is killing is you. we need to repair that syrinx in your neck.
nope. she shouldn't have let him drive in the rain. jack was never very coordinated.
i don't. i just wanted to save jack cannon.
i find that very hard to believe.
because i lied about giving you the books.
oh. wilson told you.
he's such a gossip.
i know you believe that now... but the fact is<U+0097>
great. you can dedicate the next jack cannon to me.
are you still in pain?
move on where?
what about jack? your last book didn't answer anything.
(sounding like a whiny child) you <U+0097> but that's stupid! that doesn't make any sense!
this is a book. books have beginnings middles and ends. you can't just leave it on a cliffhanger <U+0097> who does that?
your son... (house looks back to see cuddy standing in the doorway and resists the urge to be an ass) was very lucky to have you as his mother. (cuddy is visibly relieved)
oh shut up.
i know what you're thinking. she looks like cameron and he's hired her solely to sleep with her.
well you should have. but you'd be foolishly wrong. yes he's been dating at a near-clooney pace recently but at this point the only hole he's trying to fill is the one in his soul which means it's the emotional connection with cameron that he misses. did you ever marry a dying man? and if so did you freeze his sperm?
then why'd you make her wear cameron's clothes?
uh uh uh! if i know dr. shameron <U+0097> and i think i do <U+0097> she'll want this chance for a little stuff-strutting.
liver angiogram to check for fibrosis. search the home for heavy metals. [to kelly] what's your position on the legality of illegal break-ins?
true. cameron had much smaller breasts. by which i mean she was smarter.
great. we've gotten to fifth base. that's two home runs and then she gives me back a triple.
am i wearing a dashiki? [wilson chuckles] easy rider auditions ended four decades ago.
nope. she comes over we hook up she leaves.
mine. but i let her think it's hers. that's the fun of a relationship. you get the sex the dinners video game partnership. i also get a full-night's sleep.
as little as possible. that is one boring child.
i know. i'm grading on a curve. it's that bad.
i wasn't trying to eat shoes. cuddy could have adopted a golden retriever.
we'll get to it when we get to it. [house walks away and looks at a couple of bikes.]
nah. [pointing with his cane] this one's too metrosexual. this one's too heterosexual.
no.
who'd drive my car home if i buy a bike?
come back. just one more time. you'll love it.
[he's in bed playing a video game and not looking at her.] i can't defeat the new decimator 98 all alone. come on we're a team.
oops you're right. scram. i've got a massage coming by in five.
head shot!
dorothy. dorothy. dorothy dear it's aunt em darling.
well on the one hand you've got some mysterious heart and tummy problems. on the other you look great for a 65-year-old. so who are you? and no that's not some weird canadian pronunciation of how.
well that falls in the obviously stupid lie category which you're familiar with from the one you told us about your bike accident. you thought we'd never check?
well i've got another name you can tell us instead. yours.
now some person seemed to think that i was not being fair to you in our last ddx because i made you nervous. so this time i'm gonna put you at ease. it's just you and old doc house. a couple of pals chittin' the chat.
wednesday is when i get my shark tank cleaned. also because i'm giving her a chance.
this whole job is a test. i'm giving her the chance to fail it sooner rather than later. or pass. arrhythmia and elevated lfts rule out hepatic fibrosis. so heart and stomach.
explains the stomach not the heart.
explains the heart not the stomach.
explains the nothing.
i'm sure she's already starting to think how if we put the symptoms together with the abusive ex the fact that she'd just eaten the open door [she look blank] rhymes with moison
exactly. the counterargument is woof!
treat with pralidoxime. [he leans over to look at chase.] a for effort?
yes. and you would have even it you hadn't told me that.
brandi.
she is a hooker. if she's not slutty she's doing something wrong.
yesterday? ah you're getting confused by the hooker thing. no of course not. i'm dating you.
well it was a massage plus happy ending sort of thing. now it's more of a sad ending. [overly cheerful] because of you! [serious now] i've tried 15 different massage therapists over the last few years. i don't know why but she's the best i've found. she makes my leg feel better.
you don't mind the massage part you mind the sex part which doesn't exist anymore.
why would i give up one who definitely works for one who might work?
that's not really an argument now is it?
well that's an argument.
let's say you had a really fantastic handyman
would sam ask you to stop using him because you might have had a sexual relationship with him in the past?
this is not a point of pride. this is a point of principle.
the principle is she's being irrational. if i give in on this it sets the stage for the whole relationship.
you finally made a good point.
[leaving] the kitchen's burning.
just letting you all share in the joys of my last trip to carlsbad caverns. which the husband probably would have beaten up if he'd found it in the address book. [to kelly] would you mind standing next to the screen?
she isn't already?
right dr. kelly!
what's your point dr. robert?
snapilicious! but as i always like to say it's better to be a helpful helen than a negative nelly. so while you're cooking up some ideas of your own allow me to present theory 2.0 of why chase hired you. dr. kelly meet your doppelganger. [a picture of a diseased foot shows on the screen] oh no. hold on a second.
never mind the baby peep the babe. note the cheekbones and eye shape.
i know what you're thinking chase wants to sleep with his mom. but who wouldn't hit that if that looked like that? it's a classic case of what freud called<U+0097>
what do you mean he's wrong? it is about your mom?
so it's about
okay forget the mom theory. go water the patient treat for legionnaire's.
well you get major points for trying to trick me. unfortunately you lose 'em all for failing. hold that. hold that. see now you're frowning. you can really see the resemblance.
he was? huh. that doesn't bother me at all. i guess we both learned a valuable lesson.
do you have any idea how hard it is to find a straight male hooker? [she starts to leave. he follows her.] oh come on. it's a massage. i don't care who gives it to you. why not treat me the same way?
why would i do that? we're doing fine.
how about you?
you won't let me sleep over. you basically haven't introduced me to your daughter.
honestly before this i'd have said no. but yeah. how are we ever gonna be a couple if you keep hiding her from me?
call it what it is. i'm not the only one who's holding back.
it's hit her brain whatever it is.
which would get us nowhere. so let's assume it's something. what kind of something?
so her mind just happens to fall apart right after her body? wow i thought i was having a bad week.
you know what i'm back to the cameron theory. that you hired the dumb version of cameron so that you could fire her and get revenge.
oh you've switched sides? let me guess chase represents the dumb version of thirteen
you are a true leader of men. get someone to cut into her head and get me a biopsy.
why wasn't she frozen? this morning? put a healthy person on a cooling blanket they'd be chilled like a fine chardonnay. she's a nice warm merlot. 98.6 all day.
so you titrated the blanket. as her fever dropped you lowered the power.
so it's been on the lowest setting since when?
which means we could have known that her fever was gone yesterday afternoon.
when did she last puke?
two down. shooting for three.
nope. but it might be. [he disconnects it. nothing happens.] no tachycardia there's only the delusions left. if they're even still there.
[epiphany] you couldn't be more wrong. you've got the cause and effect backwards. start her on haloperidol and lorazepam. give it a few hours to take effect. call me when she wakes.
can you hear me? what are you looking at?
if it was think i'd be able to do this [places hand in fire] without screaming for my mommy? [the flames disappear.]
don't be too impressed. it's mostly the happy pills you put her on. but she can talk to us now. the obviously stupid lie you told us about your hospital records it turns out to have been un-obviously un-stupid. you thought you wouldn't get caught because you thought that you'd be cured and back home by the time we spoke to the other hospital. because you knew what was wrong with you. your doctor was treating you with risperidone right? that's why you were in trenton. you got the stomach pain you went to see him he wanted you to taper off.
not the one you know about. if you haven't figured it out by now your wife has a secret.
the ex was not so much a secret more of a lie.
she's sick. she's been sick for years. maybe it put you on the streets. maybe that's where you got the broken bones. she's only suffering from one condition. everything else is side effects of the drug that was treating it. she stopped taking the drug the side effects faded. but the underlying disease is still there. why don't you tell your husband.
that's the kind of thing that a recent psychiatric resident might have figured out.
nothing. her physical symptoms are gone. we'll put her on a different anti-psychotic for the mental ones. you can take a nap.
of course she is. you just didn't know it.
sorry as your marriage counselor i'm not allowed to talk to you without your wife present.
look if you want me to give you a reason to leave her fine. apparently you haven't noticed but she's got a serious mental illness.
it's always hard.
up to you.
nope. but she got me to the right answer which none of the rest of you did. if you want to give her another shot go for it.
great. it'll make it easier for you to sleep with her. [he leaves the elevator talking over his shoulder to chase.] come on why else would you have hired her?
i got bored with the porn on my computer. you got any girl on girl on girl on vibrating object on girl stuff? i wouldn't have to do this if you gave me the name of that physical therapist you like.
ehh knobby hands.
will you get cable?
then we'll have to have more sex.
this is meat? [she smiles.] yes please. [he hands her his plate and smiles.]
hey hey hey hey. come on kid. come on come on. come on. come on. [he gently pries the cane from her hands and mouth.] hey hey hey.
[sourly] aren't you adorable.
cancel your dinner plans. [taub foreman and chase open the files] short on medical history. she's only eight hours old. what she's not short on is doctors. unfortunately none of them have been able to solve her breathing problems.
[brief pause] silent reading time till i get back. [he follows cuddy]
[shrugs] that's a problem.
oh you've really got a problem.
love to but i'm catching up on my back issues of nudist circus. you should see what the fat lady's got under her big top.
i got a sick baby here who needs me. yours is healthy.
how about a little something extra when you get home?
for what?
fine. out of the goodness of my heart which will make you happy which will make you desire me more which will turn into more sex.
what if her lung problems are not coming from her lungs?
when the liver fails it stops producing proteins. specifically the ones that keep your plasma inside your blood vessels and outside your lungs. fix the liver she'll have enough breath to keep the entire ward up all night. [the team begins to get up] foreman... you need to stay after school. [the remainder of the team leaves the room] i apparently need to apologize. last week i should not have gone over your head and allowed chase to hire a new team member. so go hire someone who liked the bridges of madison county.
go find a woman and wipe that self-satisfied grin off your face.
well narrow it down to one before cuddy starts withholding sex.
i said wipe the grin. [he leaves the room. foreman looks after him almost affectionately.]
your mommy says no 'cause she's mean. [shrugs] if it was up to me...
no. go back to bed. [she runs into the dining room instead.] i said bed! [she looks back at him mockingly and heads around the table]
wilson! hey. [smiles] you up for a boys' night in?
[sitting on cuddy's couch with rachel attempting to calm her down] just talking in a soothing voice. not for your benefit. [cut back to team] why? is it turning you on? [taub looks uncomfortable]
nice to meet you. [high squeaky voice] you're fired.
you had the misfortune to be the lesson that foreman is learning. that whooshing sound is the air being let out of his ego.
no i'm not sure i could have. [chase looks tired and taub and foreman dispirited] i think you give me far too much credit. taub... [cut back to house and rachel] it's your turn to find a young doctor who's actually excited to have this job.
not until you or she earns it. [cut back to team] dilated bile ducts could be congenital.
so open her up.
and you were dumb enough to believe me. [wilson walks into the house and sees rachel. house picks up his jacket] cuddy'll be back in an hour and ten minutes... i'll be back in an hour and five.
oh yes i do.
yes i am. [he begins putting on his coat] 'cause unlike you i don't have a conscience.
sure. i'm leaving her with you. a responsible adult. [he opens the door and leaves]
it's kind of bugging you isn't it?
[they descend the steps to the sidewalk] well since objectively you care more about leaving a child alone than i do it kind of is.
[mounts his motorcycle] true and yet it is. because you're you.
i'm leaving.
[confidently] you're not gonna leave. you can't. [wilson struggles with that for a minute]
[he considers that then turn off his engine as well.] i'll stay if you stay. [wilson stands there for a long moment.]
[still appearing rather shellshocked] what have you got there sweetie? [rachel looks amused. wilson kneels cautiously in front of her.]
[coaxingly] come on now spit it out.
[now in the foreground] rachel... how many coins did you eat? [wilson nods encouragingly in the background. rachel looks from one to the other and doesn't answer. house and wilson look at each other.]
like i always order. did you clean up in there?
[shrugs] well he could have shortchanged you. fridge magnet's not getting anything.
really? [wilson nods] i mean kids swallow things all the time right? [wilson shrugs] i mean she swallowed a dime she poops it out. she'll be fine.
[hissing] yeah? what are you gonna tell her? are you gonna tell her that... you left coins out? [he advances on wilson who backs away] and you left her child unsupervised?!
...one time.
she's fine. [cuddy smiles and kisses him] how about i stay the night? then you can really thank me.
i'm a deep sleeper. [cuddy smiles and heads into her bedroom. house starts to follow her but stops to look guiltily at rachel's door.]
[leans over her for a split-second then leaves the room at a run] relax i got this.
[cringes at the smell] pfft! [rachel laughs. house puts a small light in his mouth and begins examining the contents of rachel's diaper. cuddy wanders in still looking half-awake.]
[snatches the light out of his mouth] yeah sorry i'm just... new to all this.
[opens one eye] god no. case is under control. i'm sleeping in.
i assume since you're calling so early that the surgery was a rousing success.
i believe this is what your people term a poopy call.
well i don't know what you're doing but this is a poopy call.
[confusedly] whoa whoa whoa whoa what?! i know about the jew the black and the croc-hunter but when did we get our asian persuasion on?
well then i just wasted a perfectly good racial epithet.
good call... except for everything you just said. there's no way that our patient has a vascular malformation. [stands up from cuddy's bed.]
don't need to be there to remember that the patient's a.l.t.s were three times normal. the baby's liver damage is far too extensive. dr. cheng's an idiot.
well then you're an even bigger idiot for trying to cover for her.
[pause] no she didn't. call me when she crashes again. [hangs up]
[cautiously pushing the cart inside] you see a double-wide tuchus coming this way you scream like a girl.
she's two! last night she was whining about the giant moose that lives outside her window. [they hurry through the lobby. cuddy can be seen emerging from the clinic in the background.]
[annoyed] she hates that moose.
[to taub over the phone] make it short. and do not pardon the pun. [wilson gestures for the ultrasound wand and house hands it to him.]
[backs into the door where a no cell phones' sign is visible] is it actually important that i understand what you say?
yeah?
i'm shocked! oh no wait a minute <U+0097> that's you.
hold that thought. [he presses the phone into his shoulder and goes to stand next to wilson.]
[worried] it's nothing. it's just an irregularity.
or a pocket of air.
that's not a face. it's a shadow.
well move the wand to the side.
[shakes his head] we need an x-ray to be sure.
uh wilson's got a two-year-old with cancer. she's in a lot of pain. it's very sad.
he also has an outstanding bedside manner. [taub still looks suspicious]
the interesting question is not why she's worse now but why she got better in the first place.
what'd you put her on again?
but not the multiple dilated ducts.
cancer kid trumps liver kid. [he enters the room and taub tries to follow him.] sorry. confidentiality. there are rules you know. [he slams the door in taub's face]
[looks at the monitor] it looks mobile. and it's right in the middle of the colon. prime location for pooping out. we'll give her some laxatives to help it on its way.
[looks at wilson and takes the ultrasound wand back from him] you're gonna make a great mommy one day. [he gets his epiphany-face and rushes to the door. taub is still outside.] thanks for waiting. hook the mom up to the baby. direct blood transfusion.
nothing else. [he retreats into the exam room and taub gapes at the door.]
mother's touch.
or a miracle.
i have no idea.
our patient can either go through life with the world's longest umbilical cord or we can discuss the differential for magic blood. [the door slides open and dr. cheng walks out. taub beckons to her.]
either you're dr. cheng or you're early for my mani-pedi.
could tell us the o2-stats. [speaks to cheng] i hope you come with some original ideas. [chase does a double-take.]
given the liver failure a deficiency of clotting factors enzymes or vitamins are the most likely.
find a donor.
hook yourself up. dr. cheng hook me up. walk with me. [they head down the hall.] my team seems to have taken a shine to you.
i assume you're hanging around because you want a job.
well i'm gonna have to test you. let's say two-year-old... swallowed a coin twenty hours ago. she's gonna be fine right?
for the purposes of this quiz let's say not yet.
[look uncomfortable] define too long.
and then what do i do? [hastily] i mean what do you do? it's your test.
[enters the men's bathroom] it's not up to me. talk to taub.
[to wilson who's giving rachel laxative candies] men's room?
oh cuddy's been in here.
[leers at wilson] is there such a place? [brings himself back to the situation at hand.] okay six more hours then we're going in with a scope and pulling it out.
and as you keep pointing out so is a dime ripping through her intestines.
i could offer to baby-sit again let her have the night out.
i wish i was nicer. [something catches his eye] hey. give me your radiation dosimeter.
because it matches my eyes. [wilson gives up and hands him the dosimeter. house leaves.]
[looks confused] that had to be intentional. i mean why would anyone<U+0097>
[overly dramatic] nooo...
[whiny] two nights in a row?
i have a life you know.
i am not going to bargain babysitting for sex. [is distracted by said cleavage] who the hell said that? of course i will.
that's it? [is distracted by the team's take-out meal] how come no one got me food?
boring. since the baby has the melanoma we kind of already knew the mom had it.
great. so treat her. also boring. what's interesting is that mom's melanoma spread to the baby in-utero which means it's metastatic which means it's late stage. how many people with a late stage melanoma are as healthy as she is?
antibodies.
exactly which means it's fighting something else and the melanoma cells are getting caught in the crossfire. so what's mom's immune system really shooting at?
see dr. cheng? this is not boring. [she smiles] start with auto-immune. go test her blood. [to taub] and leave your food. [taub picks up his meal and stalks out of the room. house looks disgruntled.]
i'm aware that this is a delicate procedure. i'm also aware that my hands are shaking from low blood sugar 'cause i haven't eaten all day. so while this may seem insensitive this crucial lifesaving moo shoo <U+0097> [he looks in the paper bag and is pulled up short] where are my extra pancakes? damn it they forgot the extra pancakes for my moo shoo pork. every time that new girl with the blue streak in her hair answers the phone they screw up.
was she there when you picked up the food?!
[points to the paper] 55 cents. and there were two.
was<U+0097>
[together] $18.42.
was obviously just a pocket of air like i said all along. but you saw the worst case scenario... [sits next to wilson] ...like every irrational worried parent. [leans forward and snags the bag of food from the table then settles back down.] you'd make a terrible mommy. [digs in the bag.]
[eyes still closed] this one's all yours.
...i did.
sausagefest implies multiples. now if you're talking about yardage i'd have to agree.
it's coming along.
i've found plenty of someones. just haven't kept them.
she'll be incredibly useful if my next patient is an escher drawing. those things are seriously screwed up.
just because my sausage has been filling your bun it doesn't mean you get to decide what flavor chips i nosh on during the day.
otherwise known as rash and liver damage. fascinating.
black guy campaigning for the opposition? does obama know about this?
martha m. masters? i'm dr. house. this is the rest of the team. boring bimbo and bite-size. martha enjoys quadratic equations italian frescoes and her turn-ons include learning to be a doctor. take a seat.
cuddy thinks she's some kind of genius. say something brilliant.
capital of azerbaijan?
year beethoven died?
20th decimal of euler's number?
she's like the internet with breasts. oh no wait the internet has breasts. (he sits down.)
now all we've gotta do is figure out which one is bimbo and which one is bite-size. also which monster truck won the 2004 thunder nationals?
the answer we were looking for is virginia giant. feel free to chime in on either conversation. (she nods.)
go to his house get me some chemicals. (addressing masters) you wanna stay on this team have an opinion. (she leaves the room with the team.)
e coli is found in animals. so unless he's drinking pork cider (having a fake epiphany) pork cider! (points at taub) i need the number of the patent office.
interesting. which raises the question (looking suspiciously at taub) what is your problem with her?
why would that bother taub? he's been working with people smarter than him for a long time. i think perky new girl makes him feel old.
yeah but she's a student. makes you contemplate your med school days. back when you had hair muscle tone and no need for a regular prostate exam.
which would mean our esteemed patient is literally full of b.s. cool. go get the ingenue start the patient on aztreonam and plasmapheresis.
so what causes rash liver failure clots and the uncontrollable urge to rat out your coworkers? oh no wait (he leans close to masters.) that last one was you not the patient.
hooray! (he throws his cup full of confetti at her to celebrate her first diagnosis) you popped your cherry diagnostically speaking. unfortunately the first time always sucks. pitch doesn't make any sense. dugan's cornea was normal. you're obviously brilliant. so why would you hide your mind?
i'm not talking about your stupid ideas about the patient. i mean your stupid ideas about morality.
rules are just helpful guidelines for stupid people who can't make up their own mind. you obviously don't fit into that category so why put yourself there?
and honesty's a great idea until your patient asks if her distended abdomen makes her looks fat.
ct from his neck to his abdomen for neuroendocrine tumors. run a d-dimer and fibrinogen for d.i.c.
masters. if lying to a patient saved their life would you do it?
that's a lie. if your grandma gave you a really crappy tea cozy for christmas would you tell her you liked it?
so you lie when it doesn't matter but you won't when it does. how'd you get so screwed up? (he leaves the room.)
how mad would you be if i fired masters?
never mind then. she's got principles. she's like the love child of einstein and mary poppins. didn't even get einstein's hair.
it is gray!
it does not (sighs) you thought i'd get defensive keep her out of pride.
so this guy spends his entire life campaigning against bleeding hearts. and it turns out he has one.
yeah if i say something inaccurate assume it's for comic effect. then laugh
she can't diagnose a joke but she's making progress on the patient.
we treat with chemotherapy.
then you said or.
the road to dead patients is paved with ors. chemo is the more effective treatment which means it'll confirm our diagnosis more quickly.
there are lots of other options. there's bloodletting crystals prayer
which is both less effective and less scary. so the patient might just choose it. unless of course we don't mention it to him.
well as long as you're sure.
oh my goodness! (he was standing behind masters) if only someone could've predicted that you'd make that incredibly stupid decision. (masters looks at house)
would that i could but ethics dictate that it's his decision. so all i can do now is return to my office knowing even as my patient endangers himself my integrity remains unblemished.
good. the wrong medicine is the right medicine.
he wants to live.
no you're not. (he takes off his glasses) i don't mind your morality in theory. but in practice you're risking my patient's life. so you're fired.
if you do i'll get you thrown out of medical school.
i know. but unlike you i'm willing to lie.
you're incapable of noticing when i do something inappropriate?
your opponent's out of the race. you can drop the smear campaign.
masters was wrong. he doesn't have h.s.p. and masters is gone.
that's a great idea if he was running a political campaign in africa. the guy hasn't been out of the country in years.
well break into his home get me some escargots. unless you wanna ask the patient's permission as a tribute to the departed.
i did! she used that opportunity to endanger our patient's life.
that's what i just said!
no problem. just find her a different department. (he leaves the office with one last glance at masters.)
yeah.
what'd you find?
there's gotta be something. dugan's going completely downhill. now fluid's collecting in his chest. where the hell are you guys?
uh kinda busy. (he hangs up.)
there you are. (masters turns to him) i was starting to think that my holier-than-thou-dar was malfunctioning. our patient's liver kidneys and lungs are failing. i need you to help me figure out why. (he sits down in front of her.)
they're in jail.
prostitution. so you're rehired.
yeah i don't need to hear your ideas. just return the volley.
nope. his vitamin a level is normal.
cholecystitis?
did you just shush me?
the technical term is speaking.
he screwed you.
no i mean he actually screwed you. taking weekend trips down to bunbury. he's got a red blotch on his hand. that's palmar erythema. that and the fact that he's got a permanent sheen of nixonian flop sweat. he's got hepatitis c which explains all your symptoms.
well then the two of you shot up together.
actually quite a few. (he walks to a cupboard opens it and picks up a syringe) look i know you've got hep c. so either you shared a bed together you shared a needle or you shared a straw. i'm talking about coke not coke.
don't care.
this is interferon. it delays the onset of rigor mortis. (he leaves.)
great news. i've decided to rehire you.
dugan's got hep c.
he's not responding to interferon.
ethics and self-esteem? you really are a pain in the ass. what treats hep c besides interferon?
yeah.
come on stop pretending you're not gonna do this. as much as you hate me you hate failing more.
but if you walk away now after i just rehired you that's quitting.
there's one thing that mimics hep a hep a. good work. (heading off the elevator.) you're fired.
hep a could cure him.
tell the lab to release a hep a culture to me. we'll see who's right.
listen to the genius.
i've given you
i can't.
that's also true of five morons. (he leaves.)
well considering the fact that i'm about to do something unethical
missed you.
we need a false positive hep c test.
the world changes when you're on the inside. you just gotta roll with it once you get out.
evidence not proof.
should be but it won't be.
false false positive. that's the best we can do? okay go do it.
but it doesn't make any sense.
i wouldn't be lying as her boyfriend. i'd be lying as her employee.
my patient is gonna die.
no.
who'd leak a story about a sitting senator who got hep c from doing cocaine? you didn't fill out any paperwork. i'm gonna run this test under an assumed name. trust me no one will ever know you were here. (he writes dugan's name on the blood vial.)
blood test confirming hep c. he got sicker his viral load came up finally showed up on the test.
i've come a long way baby.
i'm on it. (he leaves.)
how'd you like to come work for me?
we've had this conversation. you want this job.
prove yourself to me no more games. at least the current game ends. others may start. you have my deeply-flawed word.
get dugan to let us give him hep a. and while you're figuring out the best way to coax a patient into a treatment that has an 85% mortality rate here's some advice: don't.
you have a math degree. so let's see if you can follow along here. you lie to him he definitely consents he might live. you tell him the truth like last time he might not consent he definitely dies. remind me what's so wrong about lying?
oh i'm sure some other people would suffer.
and you feel good about that?
so i'm hiring an idiot.
or i want a front row seat when you wake up and realize how useless your principals are. i don't want you to just lie to a patient. i want you to want to lie to a patient.
see you tomorrow.
if i knew hiring her meant dealing with medical school paperwork i might've reconsidered. you really got nothing better to do than watch me sign this?
she had me when she called you a coward. you gonna hang out?
why aren't you guys in my office?
what you got against chickens? one got choked last night thanks to you.
can't we even talk about it?
i'm not apologizing for doing the right thing.
i lied to save my patient's life. i didn't lie to you. i lied to my boss. either of those arguments working yet? (cuddy turns and walks back toward the clinic) i guess that means i don't have to go to the wedding on saturday.
i loathe weddings and their seven levels of hypocrisy. but you do seem awfully hissy. and there's an outside chance that i could get you drunk and score. so as long as you don't take it as an admission of guilt sure count me in. (the elevator arrives and the doors open) a bit too much honesty?
housekeeping. either you're crazy or you're atoning for something naughty and you're crazy.
that answers that. thanks.
with your health insurance carrier?
oh.
so how did that negotiation go? you lowballed with ear piercing and god countered?
pontius pilate <U+0097> misunderstood oncologist.
well at least your daughter has one viable role model.
i did. then i grew my curly hairs.
maybe you were misdiagnosed in the first place.
causal determinism. we are hardwired to need answers. (house gets down off the table and approaches the bed) the cave man who heard a rustle in the bushes checked out to see what it was lived longer than the guy who assumed it was just a breeze. the problem is when we don't find a logical answer we settle for a stupid one. ritual is what happens when we run out of rational.
good. another hole in him should really make god's day.
why are you late? your next dental appointment isn't till january and you just saw your gp eight days ago. (house puts the file on the desk and scratches his chest) you think stage iv glioblastoma in an eight-year-old could disappear in three weeks?
your tires got less than 5000 miles on them. no and neither does my patient's daughter.
there's no construction site between here and your home. i agree. i think it was a misdiagnosed cyst.
i don't know yet. but you would have dropped off your tie. it's got a mustard stain.
(looking at the ring) that is the second stupidest thing i've heard today. and i'm surprised how close you came. (house closes the box and tosses it back to wilson) you don't need to buy her a new ring. isn't the first one good for all you can marry?
nothing to apologize for.
you want me to lie?
everybody lies. i'm sure cuddy
(getting up and hurrying out the door) just need to give her a chance.
fever coughing up blood coughing up teeth. so either god sweetened the deal with a no flossing clause or
heavy metal it is. do a home search and a peripheral smear.
he stops and turns to taub) trying to catch your wife cheating?
missing mojo. posture's slumped. expression defeated. didn't try to back up
shopkeeper. i need a patient file.
not one of our patients. my patient's daughter.
he thinks i only want it to debunk his faith.
because he's strangely perceptive for an idiot.
you keep me happy i return the favor. think of it as tat for tit.
it's my dressy casual. what do you think?
if you prick me do i not bleed?
you sure? 'cause that sounds so juvenile. (cuddy leaves)
it's locked.
i'll wait.
cuddy got me the daughter's file. well not cuddy exactly. her signature. well not exactly her signature.
thought you could take a look at it for me.
with what?
and yet these files are not from this hospital. these are from where-my-fiancee-works memorial.
which explains why sam is too busy to look at my file.
you don't want to propose at a wedding. emotions running high people on edge. you ought to try somewhere like a buddhist temple or an aquarium. or a buddhist aquarium. that only took ten seconds. you can spend the rest of the time on my file.
classic neurohecatia. two days of anticholinergics you'll be walking out of here.
no. i just made that up to see your reaction. diagnostic test. this is awesome. 33-year-old carpenter presenting with narcissism delusions of grandeur
i'm not talking about him. i'm talking about him with a capital o-m-g.
i think you offended him.
get an mri of his brain. let's see if we can find god.
i forged your signature.
think of it as a present. see somebody is about to turn the big 4-5 in several months and somebody else wants to make a very big deal of it.
4-3. are you sure?
how could i make such a mistake? in reading your hr file? oh no wait i didn't. and (loudly) boom goes the dynamite. scores are tied. we are even-steven.
you lied to make yourself older? are you lying about being a woman?
my point is you already have. i just need to prove it.
how are you feeling?
obviously. where are your friends? still casting lots for your clothes?
always sacrificing. very inspirational. the lesions are in your temporal lobes. when those areas get messed with people have strange experiences <U+0097> like hauntings alien abductions past lives.
i'd settle for agnostic.
no of course not. on the other hand it is communicable and it kills a lot of people.
you feel that?
your friends are not praying hard enough.
let's put it to the vote. (holding one in each hand) vest or cummerbund?
you know me. i can't say no to any of you guys. you're all correct. he has m.s. but not the friendly mr. rogers m.s. this is the weird guy in the panel van kind.
what did i just say?
that's unless we can get someone to nail themselves to a cross as soon as possible. or stem cell treatment.
i know that and you know that. he doesn't know that. but now she knows that he's gonna know that. way to go.
confirm marburg. then see if he's a fair-weather flagellator.
(imitating sean connery) you look smashing miss moneypenny.
so either god intervened which is a lazy explanation or we just don't know why. which is no explanation.
which annoys me to no end.
your woman is fudging the facts. five of those cases the stated doses don't explain the radiation damage.
not that much.
'cause morally she didn't. all five patients were terminal. she exceeded the dosing protocols to try to save their life. you would have done the same. she's a sap and she's perfect for you. (house leaves the office)
i hate rehearsal dinners almost as much as i hate weddings.
the only reason anyone gets married is that homo erectus females needed protection from predators while breastfeeding. the only reason these two are getting married is to throw an obnoxious gala and make the rest of us feel unworthy.
even though we know in two years their lawyers are gonna be fighting over the bentleys.
she's got looks. he's got money. one of them is bound to run out.
that's very specific.
oh. thought i was supposed to be the dark one.
(into the phone) yeah.
(to cuddy) you're gonna have to go stag. my patient is refusing treatment.
no. but it's an excuse you can't argue with.
you already broke it. your blood test showed you were loaded with ibuprofen.
the point is to suffer like your savior did right? well he didn't take myrrh the tylenol of ancient rome. and his nails went through his wrists not through his palms. palms are for sissies. and what about the 39 lashes and the beatings and the crown of thorns? what you go through is closer to a bad manicure than a crucifixion.
don't make this about your daughter. (house rolls the stool closer to the bed) you're just worried that if we find a cure that it'll cost you your faith. and then you'll be like the rest of us.
sticking by your convictions and damning the consequences. you two have a lot in common. you're both idiots.
just when they're applied indiscriminately to all circumstances.
he needs to see inherit the wind.
(nodding) get her in here.
someone looks lovely tonight.
i meant me. someone else looks simply stunning. that was you. and the blonde at the bar.
it's not an act. it's the wedding.
i thought i did. then i realized i've never been to one.
turns out they're kind of fun.
what would you wear?
traditionally for young first-time brides.
that is a lie. (she looks at him in disbelief) you were married before. 1987 for six days. (cuddy looks at him questioningly) your knowledge of new jersey divorce law made me suspicious so i looked it up.
uhh a trap's primitive. i prefer inveiglement. anyway the point is i lied to you you lied to me i forgive you.
(talking about chase) so how many do you think?
hat trick chase. (he picks up a glass of champagne from the table and takes a sip) see? the life of the bachelor. all of the sex none of the guilt.
that makes a lot more sense.
(grabbing his jacket and cane and leaving them) i have one more test to run.
it won't be long now. you'll be staring down the yawning void before you know it.
nope. i came from a wedding to run a pet scan.
i have. pet scan was for your daughter. i was wrong about her. she did have glioblastoma. and she still does. the cancer never went away.
which misses all the tiny little tumors that a pet scan doesn't.
i ran it twice. no mistake. looks like god broke your deal. i'm sorry. but i'm also right.
good call.
got something to show you. your daughter's pet scan. it's clean. she's fine. my bad. got her mixed up with marion silver. marisa silva. that's believable right? anyhow good news for you bad news for mr. silver.
and god will punish you for that.
cause if he didn't well that would make you wonder wouldn't it?
well that's why i'm so confused by this. (he holds up a mri scan film) this is your mri. shows incremental improvement. you're getting better. i double-checked the name on this one. but it's not all good news. this patient is screwed. (he holds up a third film) technical term is dead as a doornail.
god. you broke your deal with him your daughter's fine you're getting better. nothing bad happened. which can only mean one thing. there is no god. of course if your daughter gets hit by a meteorite today i would have some serious egg on my face.
you're smiling. i assume that means you're miserable.
punishment is proof of god and no punishment is proof of god? ingenious argument.
everyone i could trust. so yes.
either you're naive or you have scruples. i'm not sure which is worse.
i can.
i've been an idiot. i got this argument stuck in my head. if everybody lies then trust is not only unfounded and pointless it's fictional. but trust is not an argument that can be won or lost. maybe i just have to suspend my cynicism and believe. maybe it's time i took a leap of faith. (pause) i'm sorry. i won't lie to you again.
what a moron.
i meant you.
cuddy's coming over.
i apologized to her.
not really. i lied. (he turns to face wilson) i just took your advice. too bad you didn't.
you are adorable. heroism does exist.
news flash <U+0097> that guy was already on the plane. for all we know he would have killed everyone else on board if it increased his chances. faced with almost certain death a normal person rides the pine.
the guys who undergo months of training to deny their own instincts for self-preservation?
waldenwood. is that by any chance a boarding school? or a work camp?
blocks made of gold kids don't have to pick their own noses
you sure that's the right place for her? sounds a little snobby.
[without taking his eyes off the screen] shh-shh-shh.
yes just not me. your mom is a 65-year-old woman with high blood pressure.
borderline which is the lab equivalent of imaginary which by the way matches the rest of her medical history.
so get her a cardiologist. you don't want me involved. you don't want you involved. all that ethics stuff that i don't give a crap about suddenly makes sense. if you're emotionally invested you cannot make rational decisions. you know this would be a disaster.
[smiling pleasantly] treadmill test went well <U+0097> no chest discomfort or ischemia. the abnormal rhythm will probably resolve itself and if not a daily pill will keep it under control. i will follow up later today.
there are 15 years of clinic visits in this file.
[opening the file] so we're looking for a disease that can last a decade and a half causes constipation diarrhea flu cold dizziness rashes back and joint pain heart feeling weird kishkes feeling wobbly one actual hip replacement. and which has eluded detection by years of blood work x-rays and mris. well one thing does pop to mind.
mexican herbal medication for stomach problems but only in the sense that lead chromate is an herb and poison is a medication.
you know that's not the only thing they found in her home.
nope. just some stuff that could cause severe nausea and permanent erectile dysfunction and which proves that your mom is doing the help. according to her diary it's some contractor named jesus which granted was originally a jewish name but
you know texts calls and emails all go to the same magic device these days. you only got to send one.
[playing nice] yeah that's a crazy mystery. it's not like i got a department to run.
true. but it could cause the 5% that are real.
well let me answer this way<U+0097> maybe you're imagining that i think you're a hypochondriac.
i did when i was typing it up right before i slapped it on a bottle of sugar pills.
did it work?
my god a woman getting better wants to leave the hospital?
it couldn't be more because. if i hadn't she'd have diagnosed herself with six new forms of cancer. she'd never leave.
wait. i'm sorry she's sick. i'm not sorry i'm off the case.
you don't think you can convince her<U+0097>
top of the morning dr. kaufman. here's the deal. you copy me
i thought you spoke to cuddy.
listen kauffy you are perfectly competent bordering on good even. but you know i'm better. if you want we can pretend it's 'cause i got a team and more resources. either way it'd be crazy to ignore my advice.
i absolutely without apology will admit that someone may have allegedly done so.
not according to the recent supreme court case of bite versus me.
this is completely unethical. why are we listening to this?
fine fine! instead of a live stream i'll get a recap from cuddy 20 minutes later <U+0097> thank you for saving america.
yeah. i was really hoping for a different diagnosis <U+0097> one that kaufman hadn't already come up with. he just started a bone-marrow biopsy.
i don't. you do. go to admitting. find us a new case. [house takes his backpack and goes to his office. as soon as masters leaves he leans back into the conference room and whispers to get the guys' attention.] whff! psst psst! whaa! phfffft!
ddx.
no we just did the fake one. why do you think i let the truth fairy know about the bug? i was testing her. she failed. she's still a narc. thiamine deficiency fits better than leukemia.
i had dinner with arlene. i mixed her a gin and tonic. and i'd run out of the tonic so i substituted sleeping pills. next morning she assumed the blackout was from the drinking. how many old ladies are used to passing out from boozing? the answer is the boozers. we're gonna have to slip her the thiamine pills.
[nods] why do you think i'm in such a bad mood?
treatment's very easy safe. it's literally a few vitamin pills. it'll fix her heart and it won't interfere with the biopsy kaufman's running. [he places a bottle of pills on her desk.] put 'em in an antacid bottle. just tell her it's for stomach problems.
of course. absolutely. you'll ask. she'll deny. you'll push it. she'll get offended. you'll be exactly where you are now except it'll be harder to treat. you've absolutely got to do that.
she just spent the last five years going south of the border down mexico way.
addicts lie.
and keep you out of it?
that means i was wrong about the thiamine deficiency.
true dat. it's actually looking more and more like leukemia.
so there's a bright side kaufman was wrong too.
ddx.
lupus? we got fired from that case. we're moving on.
by the patient. this time by cuddy so it's real. she somehow realized that her completely unworkable system was completely unworkable. okay pop quiz hot shots <U+0097> i chose vegetable stew for a reason. you got 60 seconds no hintsies. [he taps his wristwatch then mimes zipping his lip.]
exactly. you're gonna have to<U+0097> [oops. he talked] hey! [scoffs] you're good.
really? you thought that case was interesting?
not according to my sexual harassment seminar.
congratulations you can think exactly like a semi-competent internist. kaufman's starting her on prednisone. but the heart problems were first.
it's usually a late sign.
below the resolving threshold.
check the wiretap. his i.d. guy's been putting the same argument to him. he can't convince him. you think i got a better shot?
we switch her meds. [taub and foreman are really shocked.] we get a solution of broad-spectrum antibiotics stick it in an i.v. bag marked for prednisone. kaufman can only be there a few times a day. tell arlene you're from the pharmacy switch 'em out.
[loudly] it's hanging an i.v. bag!
[louder still] what risk? we know how he's treating her. we bugged the room.
[shouting] she's dying!
no. she said to keep her out of it do what we need to do. look i know what i'm suggesting is completely screwed up. that's because this situation is completely screwed up. do it or you're fired.
another pop quiz. how many idiot doctors does it take to switch an i.v.? the longer we wait the more the prednisone is gonna kill her immune system. forget playing pharmacist. mom naps every afternoon. wait by the room. when she falls asleep get the sister out somehow.
you told me to keep you out of it do what i needed to do. what the hell did you think that meant?
only because you intentionally weren't thinking about it 'cause you don't want to make any tough decisions.
that's not a real question. endocarditis fits better than the alternatives. [deep breath] we're having a little trouble hanging the right i.v. the fastest way is with you help.
does kaufman know what we did? that's good.
we push through this. it started in the heart. endocarditis still fits. it's just got to be fungal. we have to switch kaufman's antibiotics for amphotericin b.
i don't care about confusing the attending! i want this woman<U+0097>
which she already has which will help us hide it.
[shouts] well then you shouldn't have let her fire me! [calmer] look all you have to do is switch the i.v.s again.
i'm right.
i'm kicking you out of your office. yes you. this is not her office yet. [cuddy leaves. masters looks scared. house crosses to sit behind the desk looming over masters in the process.] if you tell anyone i will get you thrown out of med school and i will destroy your career.
true but i won't have to lie. buried in your coma patient's big big file is a form that doesn't allow treatment without the expressed consent of the relatives.
you drew blood. and that's not just a screw-up. it's a criminal assault.
no. as you may recall [he mimes zipping his lip again.]
[very quiet very serious] because this patient is the highest priority.
[to masters] i think he's talking to you.
[to masters] happy?
you just killed her.
actually my mistakes started a little after that when i agreed to your brilliant scheme to keep me on the case after she'd fired me off it.
only 'cause you would have let her like you did just now.
i don't know. i've never seen you try.
here's what i've seen. she insults you you complain to me. i drug her at dinner you never let her know. we slip her medicine happens behind her back. you never confront her and it pisses me off.
she leaves she dies. one day maybe a week from now maybe a year from now you're gonna decide that the man sleeping next to you killed your mother. [he looms in] get me my patient back.
your heart's still weak from the infection. we'll hang an antifungal i.v. [he starts getting the i.v. bag ready]
two days ago? i said that i didn't have a department to run i was being sarcastic.
right because people who are talking can't tell if they're being sarcastic.
i love a-rod. he's soooo modest. and i highly respect the paintings he has of himself as a centaur. question <U+0097> do i like a-rod?
deficit in the right parahippocampal gyrus which means cns involvement before the fever. [puts the i.v. bag down] i was wrong about the endocarditis.
i am.
the fever was hypothalamic. that means brain heart anemia allergy. you hear that what do you think?
you think heavy-metal toxicity.
she got better then she got worse. she never stopped being poisoned.
you really want me to stop and explain? [he snaps on a glove unsheathes a scalpel and makes an incision in arlene's hip. arlene who is still out of it moans slightly.] there it is. look at that.
metallosis. her artificial hip weared and teared way too much. it's cobalt poisoning. we need chase to get an o.r. i'm gonna start chelation again.
once again you are unfired.
you sold me out even though you knew that you were gonna get thrown out of med school. that's just kind of impressive.
when cuddy was protecting me before she was protecting a doctor. she's now protecting a boyfriend. the hospital's not gonna put up with that for long. so i need you to protect me from doing something cuddy will regret. see you bright and late tomorrow.
picture a door. unlocked with the key of the mind. two medical cases both more fascinating than the last.
this is not a door to logical sense. also shut up. (shining the light back onto his own face) case number one. 33-year-old woman named
something i can't remember. you'll see the irony in a second. presenting with temporary paralysis high ck levels and a perfect memory.
perfectly perfect. hyperthymesia. complete recall of every moment of every day since puberty. all 7600049 of them. it's cool huh? one of only a handful of recorded cases.
obviously you're not suffering from the same condition 'cause you've already forgotten my dramatic voiceover. there's a third symptom.
yeah in the whole five documented cases.
or you could search her brain. you know where her memory lives. save the gas. (to taub and foreman) you two check her home. (to chase and masters) you two get a complete patient history. we'll see who gets an answer first.
oh! yeah. thanks.
the case of the 45-year-old doctor who just failed his pathology recertification exam and is going to lose his board certification and get fired.
normally i'd let darwinism run its course. but cuddy's in a big tizzy about her poster boy getting canned. so how are we gonna get the short guy off the short bus?
tutor it is. choose your poison. chase if you prefer pounding aussie beers and commiserating over the suckiness of divorce. masters if you want nervous energy flash cards and obnoxious pieces of arcane trivia. foreman if you need to be berated by a humorless hard-ass.
interesting. you must be more worried than you look.
i need a consult dr. wilson.
who's sarah?
i need your medical opinion on what bar we're gonna hit for happy hour tonight to kick off the official end to your three-month pity party over sam.
because of sarah?
who's sarah? wilson's friend.
or you're both lying to me.
nooo.
hello?
in the parking garage searching wilson's car.
i admit that's impressively outside-the-box thinking. (spotting something in the trunk) hmm.
no. for a second i thought wilson might have a drug problem. turns out it's much much worse.
you'll be waiting a long time since that's not what she has. her bp and respiratory rate are normal. while you two were so busy being impressively outside the box you missed the actual box. chase and masters done yet?
hi. i'm dr. house. you are not pooping. question is are you also a klutz?
what are you guessing for? you've got a perfect memory. i was told there'd be numbers dates fireworks.
let's go back to 2008. how many trips stumbles falls did you have?
this really works. cool. how 'bout 2009?
even cooler. last year?
if you add the constipation it's early onset parkinson's. give her a full neuro exam and start her on levodopa. (house leaves)
an intervention. (holding up the baggie he found in wilson's trunk) exhibit a. a baggie filled with nepeta cataria also known as
if you mean your new junkie girlfriend then yes.
i don't think you appreciate the severity of your situation. you are rapidly approaching an end-stage male spinsterism.
that cat that diabetic cat that you're shooting up with insulin and buying dime bags of catnip for that means you've given up on ever finding anyone.
if i'm completely overreacting why'd you lie to me?
its name's sarah. cats aren't named that women are. what the freud is that about?
aww who would want a cat that croaks if you're not home twice a day to shoot it up? it's like having your own button on lost. (holding up a plastic bag) you know i'm pretty sure that there is a river nearby.
masters when you finally blossom into a woman would you ever sleep with a man who had a cat?
wrong the answer is no. slut. any of you ever had a cat? (they all nod no) any of you ever had sex? (they all nod yes) i think as your people say quod erat demonstrandum.
curiosity. (tossing the string on the table) can we focus here?
run a stress test to confirm long qt.
drugs are never the answer. if we want her heart to go crazy there's something simpler and safer. use the sister.
you lied to me.
that's not the kind of putty tat he needs to be getting it from. he needs a putty tat he can tap.
after divorce number two he fell into a committed relationship with a three-legged siamese. he stopped answering his phone redecorated his place like grey gardens. he wasn't able to come back to humanity until a window was left suspiciously and heroically open. how that cat opened the window i will never know.
(as he leaves her office) i won't if you will.
because while they're off running all these tests you will be submitting the insurance forms.
exactly. the foreman department. of which you are the foreman foreman. i know you got the time. a little wallaby told me that you recently vacated your post as taub's savior.
consider the forms incentive. taub doesn't pass he'll become a permanent part of your life.
don't think you can disgust me into pulling foreman off you. pulse the patient with steroids for the autoimmune. start her on dialysis for the kidney failure. treat the taub with insults and small slaps for the obstinacy and start him on studying for the brain failure. (house gets up and goes into his office)
(removing his glasses) paranoia is the first sign of toxoplasma gondii the parasite linked to crazy cat lady disease.
maybe your subconscious is afraid that you're gonna die alone. and it just comes out as gibberish and sneezing. prove that i'm overreacting. boys' night out. good time charlie's. they just changed their slogan to where the trashiest ladies
but i never had a cat. why don't you pick me up at 8:00? (wilson leaves)
pulmonary edema doesn't give you hives.
it can be. if it was a really really bad one.
i have good news and bad news. the good news is i was right about you having some autoimmune disease. you're just allergic to the dialysis.
well you figured out the bad news.
i'm sure she's right. unlike everybody else in the world her memory seems to let her keep a pure and objective view of people in relationships. there's no petty
not necessarily. nadia's sister's not like her. i'm sure she's got plenty of subjective emotions we can exploit. why don't you go channel your guilt see if you can get her to cough up a kidney?
someone else didn't screw this up.
you were just obeying orders. right? go fix this.
did the patient thank her sister?
see if she will.
if she's telling the truth. she claims she objectively sees reality. weighing the good and bad in people. if that's true i don't care how many times her sister borrowed her scrunchie without asking a free kidney ought to trump all the bad stuff.
that means she sucks like the rest of us.
factor 5 leiden. easiest to treat if we're right. start her on heparin. and ask for the thank you. (chase nods and he and masters leave)
too fat. too thin. too desperate. not desperate enough. (to wilson) come on you can insult them too.
if you objectify them now you'll feel more comfortable when you tie them to a table in your basement later. or whatever.
whoa! too hot.
brains and boobs. the mother lode.
girlfriend that means she's into you.
hi there. wilson james wilson. i'm a doctor. i'm hoping that's enough to close because i'm also a social moron. and i have a cat.
yeah but is she interested?
bartender! champagne for everyone!
do you know if that o.r. nurse that wilson liked ever broke up with her boyfriend?
i'm putting together a second string in case things don't go well with the well-breasted barista.
he's not supposed to be alone.
have you met me?
(answering the phone) yeah.
so then the question becomes will the sister show up at the funeral?
nobody's perfect. what else? (none of them answer) come on the woman has all the information we need. she's a bottomless diagnostic library.
hey. how many puzzles?
do a peripheral blood smear. look for acanthocytes. i'll be right in.
remember me? just kidding. (he and chase enter the room) so jigsaw puzzles.
you ever left one unfinished?
speaking of
more important question is why are you?
it's a habit that compels you in an obsessive way that's so bad it's a disorder.
so what we thought was a gift is just you literally obsessing over your own life.
memory was just a symptom of a symptom of a larger disease. you have mcleod syndrome. it's a rare genetic disorder that affects the nervous system the blood. and can cause (he reaches for her cup again but she stops him before he can move it) ocd.
if it's any solace everybody dies alone. (nadia glares at him) it probably isn't.
hey.
those are for sarah.
poi<U+0097> you and your paranoia. now if you'll excuse me
i really should find a better place to store my ragweed.
so i wanna hear all the dirty dairy-specific details of your night with java the slut.
i'll give you ten days.
ooh!
muahahahaaaaahhh [his head pops out from under the bed. he is grinning.] gotcha.
set an alarm and everything.
god i hope not. [she smiles and joins him on the floor draping across his chest as they kiss.] now that we're down here
seriously?
i'll wait. i brought a book. [he reaches under the bed pulls out a book and starts to read.] i didn't know what time your alarm was set for.
you know you can rent this space out down here. in japan that would be like a deluxe<U+0097>
you're my girlfriend. i'm being supportive.
well given that there's almost certainly nothing wrong with you and my patient definitely has something wrong with him<U+0097>
'fraid not. he's [house is stumped] chase.
see? serious.
but it is a good-time adjacent. [to the team] feed the kid a camera. check his gut for angiodysplasia.
[confidentially to the urologist] hey i'm uh i'm missing a watch. so can you keep your eyes open while<U+0097>
you are very pleased with yourself aren't you?
[to taub] run a lead level and push 5 liters iv fluid.
cystoscopy was clean. cytopathology was normal.
[tosses them on the desk] i don't. if i did i'd know you were fine.
come on. your hypochondriac mom had a brush with mortality last month and it's understandable that you're worrying more than usual worrying that you might turn into her.
meet me in the cafeteria in ten. there'll be a corn dog with your name on it. i mean an actual corn dog. they fixed the deep fryer.
oh don't do that!
i'm not talking to you. [he was talking to the computer.]
damn!
not talking to you!
she's fine. she's just too stupid to accept it. start him on nafcillin for staph.
you're freaking out because of one ultrasound performed by an incompetent bonobo monkey.
[shrill] calling a lawyer drafting a will! [she gives him a look.] okay. i-i hacked into your online schedule. look tests always show something. a mass in your kidney could be a complex cyst. it could be benign.
but you're doing it now because you think you're sick. the freaking out can at least wait until after the biopsy this afternoon.
for the dean of medicine the first opening in the schedule is oh look! now. [he turns his arm as if he were showing her a watch even though he isn't wearing one.]
actually it is.
[quietly] good point. [he leaves.]
[from the other room] that better be her!
i don't know why you're here but i didn't do it.
nope. but since her mom died she's my favorite tax write-off. officer you have my word it won't happen again. [the policeman walks out.] 'cause next time [house flips the door closed] she won't get caught!
looks like peeing blood is the new black.
probably some kinda mass.
makes sense. but doesn't rule out a mass.
mass doesn't have to be cancer. could be renal hematoma.
it's probably just a complex cyst or angiomyolipoma.
if it were heroin he'd be going through withdrawal. antiphospholipid syndrome's a better fit. start the patient on plasmapheresis.
have i ever said no to that question?
what are you doing here?
cuddy's biopsy is in an hour. you should be keeping her company.
three <U+0097> i hate the smell of death.
i'm talking about our relationship. she needs support and comfort both things that i famously suck at. this will inevitably lead to<U+0097>
i'm not gonna act like there's a crisis before we know there is one. there's no proof there's anything wrong with her.
[thinks this over and nods] you're right.
chase? how'd it go with cuddy? chase?
good thing i brought my ax cane.
i'm coming!
it looks like we got company.
[shouting] no!
ah
i was sleeping. what could go wrong?
and a complete absence of any record of cuddy's kidney biopsy. she must have put it under a false name so i couldn't rush the results.
there's no patient file created in the last two days for anyone having that procedure.
hands off. she's mine.
how sweet. i'm not worried. i just wanna get the results so she can stop worrying.
do an angiogram. you two go to pathology and look at cuddy's slides.
i guess you're gonna have to look at them all.
pie-eating contest.
yeah. i get it. she needs artificial support for an artificial problem. she's fine.
we don't know that. [masters knocks on the open door and enters.] hey! eating pie in here.
he's referring to the pie.
means they'll have to remove the mass to know if it's cancer or not.
[calling from the living room] can we order pizza? there's nothing in the fridge. at least not anymore. what's happening with the patient?
you keep talking like wilson your face will freeze like that.
just in time. pot roast is ready.
i cured all my patients so i came home to spend time with rachel.
we've been studying together. [fake aside out of the corner of his mouth to rachel] it was supposed to be a surprise.
i think rachel deserves a treat. [he pulls a lollipop out of his apron pocket.]
girl can dream.
yeah. [foreman sees the look on his face and stops shooting video monsters.] okay. [he hangs up.]
imaging shows enhancing masses across multiple lobes of cuddy's lungs.
she's dead.
i got a great idea where we should go.
you're gonna love it. australia's finest. there's a great karaoke bar in newark<U+0097>
they got every <U+0097> every song by every aussie artist. midnight oil men at work olivia newton john.
and the barbecue shrimp is amazing.
hot and salty and delicious. [he pulls a candy bar out of his pocket and starts to eat it. she stares at it.] talking about food made me hungry.
means you're stressed at work. all dream symbols mean you're stressed at work. or castration anxiety.
i can do better. [they push themselves to stand leaning against the wall.]
i should have been here. sorry.
if you don't make it i won't sleep with anyone for at least a month.
bitch.




















[spoken]
[spoken]
[spoken]




hi.
[puts down the journal] guess who doesn't have cancer? me. also you. actually you for sure. me
your tumor was benign. an oncocytoma. they cut it out. you'll be fine.
once they ruled out cancer i remembered that your mom was allergic to antibiotics. so i had them test your blood and your ige levels were through the roof. because the lung masses were an allergic reaction. so now you're off the antibiotics your lungs should clear right up. [she smiles] i brought you something. [he fishes a small clear jar from his pocket.] say hello to your tumor.
take him off the meds. he's got a staph infection.
bacteria already in his system responded. but once a door's been busted open more just keep coming.
for the cheap seats an abscess is a gooey little cream puff of infection. probably burst when your little pride and homicidal joy took a hard foul.
[also ashamed. he can't look her in the eyes.] how did you know?
it was a one-time thing.
i was scared because i thought my girlfriend might die.
as opposed to everyone else in the world who goes looking for pain like it's buried treasure?
i ca<U+0096>i came to be with you.
i wanted to be.
[imploring] i can do better.
no. no no no. don't. don't.
don't. please don't.
i'm fine.
i assume cuddy told you that she dumped me.
and that i'm back on vicodin.
and then i took a lot more. [he takes another one.] and so on.
well i'm not fine as in fine but i'm fine as in you don't have to worry about me.
because i'm going to be fine as in fine very soon.
my leg hurts.
it's gotten worse.
worse is worse. pain doesn't discriminate. neither do the pills. the vicodin and the five-star pampering that i'm gonna get over the next few days should be enough to get me through it.
nothing is either as bad or as good as we think it is at the time. that's why t.o. mocks his opponents immediately after scoring. he doesn't wait till his friend shows up the next day to tell him to deal with it. [there's a knock on the door.] two weeks from now maybe a little more maybe a little less my life will be back to its usual level of crappiness. till then the only real issue is how much i'm gonna spend on hotel charges.
do i have to count the strawberries?
[points to wilson] after he and i have sex i'm gonna slit his throat and then disembowel him in the bathtub.
why didn't i meet you six months ago? [he hands carnell the money.]
[biting a strawberry] eat fast. we're expecting company.
what do you think he meant by anything?
i know it's a figure of speech to underline the anything.
already scheduled.
[looks at wilson] i'm not an idiot. i know i need help.
i know.
yeah. baby steps.
morons.
whoa. wait a second. the acoustics in here are beautiful. [loudly echoing] morons! [cut to hotel bathroom. house sharing a bubble bath with a beautiful brunette who faces him in the tub.] you say it.
something carnell got me.
great theory. it's a ridiculous test. you can't give a standard balance test to a champion bull rider. [while he is talking he is holding the hooker's foot toes poised to enter his mouth.] if you're gonna test superman's strength you need a bigger barbell. find one make him lift it then call me and tell me how high it got. [he leans to the side of the tub to talk directly into the phone.] and tell cuddy that spying is for cowards.
can you pass me the um
what took you so long?
doesn't answer the question.
apology accepted.
[indulgently] oh that's so cute. you're fighting over who's in charge.
who's in charge?
let me rephrase. who's your daddy?
those my only two choices? or can i also point out the self-pity coming from you? you're just annoyed because when your relationship ended no one gave a crap including you.
and chase stop screwing with foreman. [chase whose hands are almost covering his mouth grins broadly.] and foreman no. till the telephone gets uninvented no one in that room needs more authority than i give them and right now i give you the authority to scope his gi tract and biopsy his parotid. and you can pick up the phone.
i am not on vicodin. [he swallows a vicodin.] do the tests. i have to see a man about a hurdy-gurdy.
making it as they say as tough to find as a hooker who can play the hurdy-gurdy.
it's an expression. means it's tough but apparently it can be done.
you have eyes.
obviously.
only if you want to see what's wrong with him. [he hangs up.] do you know free bird?
it's a mass [he's in bed.] and then it's not.
team meet duke.
anke? how'd i get duke?
as in eaten? ever? this year?
all but one. she did my taxes. on the other hand tapeworm that burrowed
detached cyst?
okay so how did you shoot down intermittently swollen lymph node?
sounds good.
it's probably a push. i'm just trying to get you out of here because underneath this sheet [confidentially] stuff is going on.
just pick a spot and stick a needle in it.
that is a nice bow.
put it on my tab. let's say we take it up a notch. [he tosses carnell an apple.]
you don't trust me?
and we have a gamer.
why not? [#5 giggles and holds the apple on top of her head.] anything goes wrong we just take her to the doctor. and i'm only eight paces away.
i like you carnell. don't ruin it. [he turns on the phone.] stinky feet can point to diabetes athlete's foot or gangrene pick one.
don't do that carnell. they might get the idea that i'm shooting at a hooker. [he takes aim. the hooker waits. he lowers the bow as he gets an idea.] fungal infection can cause ulceration between the toes and bleeding could be from recurring abscesses that appear to be recurring masses.
[aiming and pulling back on the bowstring] no it'll just feel like it's ripping him in two which is much better.
oops. [the team listening looks puzzled] got to go.
why?
she doesn't look hurt.
yes we did.
okay. go get me uh general patton's colt 45. [the door opens] the one with the two notches.
i'm fine.
what an ego. you think you're some sort of emotional paragon? you're my rock?
at least i have the good sense not to marry every woman i fall into bed with. maybe you should move in with me.
[getting annoyed] i prefer you to stop talking about this.
[loudly] leave me alone!
so i have no choice? fine. unless unless [he has a revelation.] yes i do. i do have legs. [he stands.] i see you didn't factor those into your brilliant plan. [house takes his drink and leaves.]
if the infection's not in his heart then it's in his brain. you're in my sun. do a ct.
so get rid of them.
[sits up supporting his leg] and not removing the plate will be like leaving the egg out to rot.
what if the one symptom that hasn't disappeared was never actually there? any delays when he answers questions? [masters nods] he doesn't have partial hearing loss. he's missing moments. he reported having something like a complex partial seizure during a bull ride. said it hasn't happened since but what if he's wrong? what if the infection in the brain is causing it to happen all the time?
i didn't say it was a seizure. i said it was something like a seizure.
nope 'cause i already got one. [stands and takes a wad of bills out of his pocket which he hands to hooker #6.]
it won't. it's just gonna prove that we need to cut into your skull which is gonna be kind of dangerous. so you've got a real incentive to sing like an angel.
it can't compensate if there's a preset rhythm. [he sets a metronome on the bed tray.] one two three.
[unenthusiastically] yeah.
i hate when you do that. you respond to what you think i'm thinking because you think that i think like you do. it's insulting and annoying.
it's understandable. you're scared because you think i'm falling apart and you're trying to convince yourself that you're overreacting.
[answering] yeah.
well that sucks. now we have to blow up his heart.
'cause we're looking the wrong way. [holds up the straw.] there's an imperfection. how do you find where?
you suck. feel free to interpret that both ways. suck on the straw see where the drink leaks.
if we don't rip it the damage from the infection will probably not when he's got his chest open in an o.r. where it can be repaired inside the 60 seconds it'll take him to bleed to death.
now if you don't mind get this guy's approval to rip his heart open.
hey. we think you have a bartonella infection which caused a mycotic aneurysm in your aortic wall. we need to find it which means we need to blow up your heart. and yes i'm as serious as a heart attack. we're going to increase your blood pressure until the weak spot in your aortic wall explodes. hopefully we'll be able to fix it before you bleed to death. any questions?
really? you don't even want to know if you'll be able to go back to bull riding?
[puzzled] thought you loved those eight seconds.
[calm and deliberate] since i didn't ask i wasn't expecting you to say anything at all.
[mirthless laugh] really? no reason? none at all? i'm just planning on cracking open his chest blowing up his heart what to pad his bill? [scornful] or you think that since you broke my heart i want to break his.
you're right. i am. but my damaged depressed drug-addled judgment is still better than yours or any other doctor in this hospital and my team is gonna do this procedure and save his life. so you can either have security arrest me and my team or you can get the hell out of my way.
[contemptuous] annnnnd she caves.
i take it you ratted me out to cuddy.
no you don't. [he hits the intercom button with his cane.] come on. i got a squash game at 2:00. let's give this cowboy a ride.
you're right. let's make damn sure we don't damage his toes while we blow up his heart.
not yet.
[over the intercom] i heard you.
double scotch. doubled.
no.
cannonball!
[standing in the pool surrounded] what do you do when you win?
what do you do when you lose?
first person to offer me an interesting case gets to ride her single or double-team. (masters looks uncomfortable) my scooter which now said out loud sounds even more inappropriate. (he hands his sunglasses to dominika)
let me guess diagnosis was fire.
cool. dysosmia could be anything from an environmental factor to an early sign of a degenerative brain disease. (taking the patient file from masters) smells like a winner. okay (speaking to taub) you and chase go check out the park where they found him. (to masters and foreman) you two load him up with prednisone give him an odor i.d. test. if he's still mistaking his body odors for candy the problem's definitely in his brain. also find out what else he's lying about (throwing the file down onto the table) since i'm assuming ferris bueller is not his real name. (he starts up the segway again)
before i forget i want you to meet dominika. she's about to become a permanent member of team house.
me. we're getting married on friday. (to dominika) mount up!
living on the edge baby doll!
speaking of things (he looks through the stack of invitations he is carrying) i'm having one on friday. if you want to drop by we'd love to have you. (he hands an invitation to cuddy) no pressure.
so i am. perhaps you're not familiar with new jersey handicap ordinances.
have you any idea how much this toy cost?
for some reason my leg's been hurting a lot this week.
fine. i'll return it.
but i'll have to walk it out of here.
i hear a strange voice.
i know we said no secrets but i think i need to take this alone honey bunny.
yeah it's the classic you dumped me so i'm gonna get married a week later ruse. 'cause not only is she that stupid but apparently i'm that stupid.
it doesn't. but you proved that yourself years ago.
only one theory left i am. dominika needs a green card.
(opening the folder) have you seen me practice medicine? you know how much it costs to have a live-in maid personal assistant cook massage therapist whore? i do. she's willing to work four days a week for free. it's gonna save me about $33000.
all i have to do is say two stupid words i do.
(putting his feet up on the desk) iron-clad prenup we go our separate ways. your stunned look i take it is your way of saying brilliant idea house.
he also enjoys vitamin h. the kid's a junkie.
his hair wasn't. i had it tested (he eats one of the cucumber slices) 'cause unlike santa and the easter bunny homeless non-mentally ill 20-somethings without drug problems don't exist. he was a heavy user sometime in the last five months.
he really puts the mani in the pedi.
not usually. but this guy's been sleeping on a bed of dog poop. i wouldn't be surprised if he's got six different symptoms for six different reasons.
vitamin o.d. makes sense and it's easier to treat. give him tocopherol and zinc supplements for the excess vitamin a. if we're right he could go homeless tomorrow.
(to dominika) see what happens when women don't have to serve men to stay in the country? the get all uppity. this is why we invented green cards. (to masters) go x-ray the guy's abdomen if it'll make you feel all equal. (masters leaves)
i need a favor. (tossing a folder on her desk) i want to add my fiancee's name to my health insurance a few days early. she wants to get a tooth capped before the big day. (he spins around on the segway)
i agree. (spinning around again) i think she looks beautiful the way she is. oh no wait. you're not signing that for moral reasons?
you're declaring yourself the sole arbiter of true love? 'cause you covered taub's wife for years.
(calling out to dominika in russian) voydi moya malishka (come in my baby.)
she wanted me to bribe you like they do back in the old country. (to dominika) tell her what i said.
yeah i just get teary-eyed every time i hear her say that. she brought you a gift.
almond kulich how can you say no to that?
yes.
north miss teschmacher! (eve teschmacher was lex luthor's assistant in the first two superman movies)
which is kind of surprising for a homeless junkie living in a park.
once an addict always an addict.
doubt it. you're the main reason i'm on the stuff. we could be looking at fungal masses hanging off the walls of his colon. start him on amphotericin b tonight and in the morning run a scope up where the sun don't shine see if you can find any truffles.
i'll start when you decide what the symptoms are and give me some theories.
but the patient doesn't no fever.
negative reinforcement.
good. mri his head find it.
(to dominika) hey hey.
except it's not. i've seen mri imagery like that in schizophrenics. (back to the game) three serving two.
it's face.
close enough. the e.r. docs missed it because he didn't present with major symptoms yet. we're seeing it in its infancy.
i'd love to but i got four million other crazy people ahead of him on my to-do list along with milk.
no i don't.
she's dying of guilt and feels horrible for dumping me. it's great. i mean not the dumping part but the part where she'll now let me do whatever i want.
that's not true. i got plenty of goals. (taking off his glasses) one of them is a 60-inch flat screen right there. (he nods toward the wall in front of his desk)
ahoy there me hearties! permission to come aboard.
it's not. he's on clozapine. he'd be getting better not worse.
don't make me take my shoe off!
or cortical-based ganglionic degeneration or huntington's or any one of a dozen other genetic diseases.
if we're gonna test for them all it'll take weeks. i'm not canceling my honeymoon to treat this kid.
most are.
so we cheat. since it's genetic daddy or mommy's got it too. they're either sick or dead.
he's a homeless ex-junkie. are you telling me that you four geniuses can't outwit him? green light! (house floors the accelerator throwing everyone back against their seats)
cuddy got it for me. and now i'm drafting a request for a study into the effects of caffeine involving an italian espresso machine and a massage chair so make it quick.
well done.
the well done was for making it quick. now i'm gonna have to take that back.
and the reason you're continuing to talk instead of driving there?
you are genuinely upset at being mockingly snubbed by a mock wedding?
she is. (dominika puts some tools on the desk) oh my god! w-what did you think she was doing? she's just installing the cable. (taub leaves as house calls out after him) that's not a euphemism!
shhh!
test.
the important question is who are you? danny jennings is dead which means that danny jennings has no pulse. you on the other hand do. ergo you are not danny jennings. (house leans his cane against the bed) or i did the test wrong. so why don't you cut the crap and tell me your real name.
hiding your identity well either you're a criminal or a superhero.
awesome. what color is my underwear?
no problem. i just need your father's name.
care to tell me why?
you're a big boy now. you still think he can hurt you?
well luckily for you we don't need daddy to figure that one out.
cerebellar ataxia.
(pushing the elevator button) the guy whiffed twice trying to pick up a cup right in front of him. that plus everything else
means that we have whittled our list of genetic diseases (he swallows the pills) all the way down to one early-onset parkinson's.
you could lie. i'm fine with that. but you'll probably both feel better if you give him levodopa and confirm with dna tests.
what you want the fish instead of the chicken?
oh so you've decided to take a moral stand.
you're right. i think i saw blue the janitor passed out in one of the pews last week.
well where are we gonna go? we got caterers staging everything downstairs as we speak. we've got floral arrangements place settings other wedding-y stuff.
i sent out the invitations. people are coming here.
what are we missing?
why?
yeah but why so fast? he had dysosmia for a couple months never even came here to get it treated. he's just a random burn victim. we get him boom he's got tunnel vision peripheral polyneuropathy cerebellar ataxia and now cardiomyopathy. what's different here than say living in a filthy state park?
stop that man! (the worker pauses) i need the meal card for the patient in 243. (house hangs his cane on the cart and leafs through the list of danny's meals) he's eating healthy because he can. most of the meals in here are vegetarian. (he hands the meal record book back to the worker and takes his cane off of the cart) adult refsum disease fits all the symptoms. his body can't process the phytanic acid and chlorophyll. it's his healthy diet of green vegetables that's killing him.
run him through a plasmapheresis treatment to remove the excess phytanic acid from his blood. confirm with gene testing. okay i gotta go get married.
yep.
i like you too.
i can't.
i never sleep with married women. i'm going to bed. you can take the couch.
[loudly from his office] you'd lie too if you bottomed out ended up in drug rehab. [he takes some pills.]
loved ones are always the last to know. loved ones and robotic estranged ex-boyfriends. our patient is kendall pearson. 16-year-old aspiring pirate.
collapsed yesterday during a practice run. luckily for us cameras were there. [he hits a button on the remote and an overhead shot of a sailboat with one person on deck comes on the tv.] corporate sponsors want us to check that's she seaworthy before the clock strikes you're too old to set a record. gives us three days. [to masters] you've still only got one right?
pulse and bp were normal at the time of the rescue. it's not dehydration. what about your internship? you sign up this morning?
nice. blood draws every 15 minutes for four hours. let's track her cortisol. masters there's no hurry. there's no wrong choices. at least that's what they tell people who make crappy choices.
[sighs] you know a blacksmith who spends this much time hammering out a new blade from raw jell-o gets curious about who ends up wielding it.
thirteen why don't you take masters to do the blood draws. you can remind her about all the perks of working for me.
save the attitude for someone who didn't just get you your medical license back. price you pay.
no there isn't.
relax. she's completely honest but also completely boring. watch this. don't tell anyone.
oh i'm sorry. did you want to do one of those? you should've spoken up. you want the job or not?
great. my department has a slightly different procedure log.
do you know how to do an lp?
do you know how to do nine lps and say it was ten? it's time to grow up. turn that in the job's yours. [her pager beeps] stop staring blankly and go. no doubt something horrible has just happened to our patient.
down here! [house is by the elevators. he's looking at the floor and taking baby steps.] loss of consciousness plus she's slowly turning blue. can we rule out magical gum?
that clever bastard wilson got a hold of an australorp.
hello? the quietest and calmest of all the chickens.
cerebral vasospasm makes sense. take thirteen. give the patient a calcium channel blocker infusion in the basilar artery. [he sees the log in masters' hands.] masters. i thought you were going to turn that in.
you're not busy now. [standoff. she leaves.] bawwwwwwk bawk.
on your way to do that did you happen to stop and give thirteen an lp? thirteen's stiff gate small pupils and the raging headache she's hiding gave you away.
my rule. told you to defy the man. not this man.
no. not liking it is fine. not doing what you don't like makes you an eight-year-old. wastes your potential. [he sits at his computer and starts typing.]
that's the last thing i want. 'cause then neither one of us would be exceptional.
not anymore.
no you can't. 'cause i'm not gonna let you. internship's gone. it's time for masters to say good-bye. enjoy being a surgeon. you'll be fine.
[from the observation deck.] don't you have your own surgery?
you lied. small one. but it's a gateway lie.
another lie. you care about being exceptional.
a third lie. welcome to the slippery slope.
when is a calcified pineal gland not a calcified pineal gland? i realize technically it's never but<U+0097>
you had me at i had to pee. but thirteen's right. start her on three fold immunosuppressants. masters if you want to fight me on this fill out a consult form so you can stick around. welcome back.
you got really good at this lying thing.
you want yours extra crispy or original recipe?
no you're not. case is over. you're back to surgery. [he casts off. the lure lands at masters' feet.] and fetch. [the dog runs to grab it.] oh that's a good boy. oh that's a good boy. hey good boy.
[reeling the lure back in] sign on the door says i'm a diagnostician. cool diagnosis means i'm finished.
[casting off again] pretty sure the law of the land states that everyone has the right to be an idiot. [the dog is staring intently at the lure. he starts to edge toward it.] uh! [the dog stops.] i think it's the second amendment. fetch! [the dog bounds after the lure.] bring it here boy. who's a good boy?
[reeling the lure in] yeah. 'cause they faced the truth.
i'm fine with that. i wanted a diagnosis. i got it. what do you want?
break the rules.
so coloring inside the lines is more important to you than saving this girl's life? i was wrong about one thing you are not exceptional. [casts off again] and fetch! ho ho ho. oh that's a good boy. good boy. good boy.
[unseen from the hallway] fetch!
someone has got their pouty face on.
good.
i don't want to know the specifics. might be called to testify.
you were right.
and you're following me to ask how i break the rules and maintain my rosy demeanor.
well you can't always get what you want. [wilson opens the door and house hands him a twenty.] to the victor of the spoils. your bird recover okay?
surgery?
nothing will ever be simple again.
thirsty. side effect of a new antihistamine i'm on.
hmm intriguing.
got some questions about whether thirteen really believes in karma or just wants to. as for the patient it's not gonna be easy to break into her office. might want to start with her home.
sure. go ahead.
i am definitely interested. could be a tumor. could be a cns bleed. what do you do when you got two interesting puzzles?
bet's off. fight was fixed. [wilson opens his arms wide in what are you talking about? fashion.] that punch barely touched him.
speed beats power unless speed has been paid to speedily take a dive.
we bet on a sporting event. that was not sporting. less than 30 seconds. that was barely even event-y.
yeah well you can take that to your grave. you're not taking my 50 bucks.
so two puzzles. tie goes to the one that costs me money. [he grabs his cane and heads for the door.] keep each other posted.
hey how's it going?
i'm not here to judge. you did what was best for you and i got no problem with that.
or what? you're suddenly gonna fall down? listen. i got a problem. a guy who knows absolutely nothing about boxing because of you now thinks he does. you can imagine the potential ramifications. i need you to get on the phone with him and tell him you took a dive.
take a picture of you to prove that it was really you and we're done. just enough to convince him. not enough to get you in any trouble.
yeah. that story's getting boring. look i'm not from the commission. i'm not some bookie. i'm a doctor. this is my i.d.
but you were the better fighter. that last punch barely touched you.
ha! [slams door] proof.
look at his pupils. he has anisocoria which given his age the adrenaline surge of the fight the fact that he's still alive means he was tachycardic. he has wolff-parkinson-white syndrome.
if he's physically unable to continue because of a preexisting illness then it's technically a no contest which means all bets are off.
actually it would if you were right.
d<e9>sol<e9> je ne parle pas anglais. [sorry i don't speak english.]
great. i'm a guy who doesn't care.
oh you thought i didn't know who wendy lee was? yeah makes sense. i'm not good at names. did dr. fortune tell you that?
see this is what i don't care about. [the elevator arrives. house gets in and pushes a button.] i don't care who cares about her. used to care about her. either one you falls down dead you can drop me a note.
you screwed up in the lab and accidentally spilled some bomb on her?
apparently our mad scientist is also a slutty scientist whose milkshakes got all the nerds in the yard fighting over her.
oh i'm sorry. i thought we were still judging her.
you know what else wouldn't hurt? this case is getting interesting. let's add a little danger.
one normal ekg does not a healthy person make.
oh you make me so sad. don't talk like that.
kill me for loving my patients. it's just what i do.
hey stop. stop! [foley turns around] look my<U+0096>my leg hurts. okay? just talk to me for a moment. [house holds his leg as he sits on one of the benches in the hall. foley stands in front of him.] you don't have to be a loser.
whatever's wrong with you it's real. sick is good. sick means it can get better. you cold get better. and i don't mean healthier. i mean maybe you don't have to suck.
what looks like wolff-parkinson-white but isn't?
so was his. that's why i said looks like. as in similar to but not the same.
who's the real bad guy here? the guy who doesn't care enough to help or the four guys who are not competent enough to help? he works out too much gets pounded too much and not in the romantic way. his pupils<U+0097>
your patient? no. plenty of time to save her life after we save my money.
[lifting his head] although
great news! you have an underlying neurological condition which together with your heart<U+0097>
yeah i also said i would get you your career back. but it doesn't seem to matter since you've so clearly been handed the golden spit bucket. [foley glares slightly at him.] sympathetic overdrive. it's a medical term. so is great news. of course if you prefer wallowing [foley turns away from him. house follows.] all you need is a chin. and a heart apparently. then you can go back to being the guy who won 20 of his first 20 instead of the guy who lost 5 of his last 5. although technically i count the last one as a no contest.
i'm a doctor. i don't tell a fat guy to lay off bacon for less than 300. [foley almost laughs.] this is about dignity for both of us. give me your arm. [he hangs his cane on a piece of equipment and pulls something from his pocket.] give me your arm.
don't worry. it's just epinephrine.
in the wrong hands very. so yeah sort of. this will only take a few seconds. [he checks the pulse in foley's neck.] and you are tachycardic.
we combine the increased heart rate with chest trauma by applying a little sweet science to the science. don't worry. i'll<U+0096>i'll explain more when you wake up. now the punch that supposedly knocked you out looked like it was thrown by an old cripple. kind of like this.
three two one. [he waits but nothing happens.] huh. seem to be older and more crippled than i thought. [he punches foley again.]
doesn't make sense. maybe if i<U+0097>
how did you get in here?
pain has been getting worse. i figured if i upped the vicodin any more i'd end up back in a rubber room so this seemed like the smarter choice.
you drove all the way over here to break in and call me an idiot?
oh that makes more sense.
even more logical.
there is another theory. [he picks up a report from a table and hands it to her.] compound cs-804. it's an experimental drug that's supposed to regrow muscle.
it's groundbreaking. huge success.
well they got four legs. think how fast it should work on one.
great is a little vague.
have you done maximum tolerated dose studies?
but if it's worthy of the preface obviously then obviously it only needs to be explained to idiots. do i look like an idiot? [riggin looks offended.] sorry. cranky. what i meant to say was: why don't scientists have groupies? 'cause i'd do you right now if society wasn't telling me that you're just an underpaid dork.
leg hurts. would you mind getting me a coffee?
it will prevent me from walking to get the coffee.
[opening the door] that's unfair. 'cause at one point even vicodin was an experimental drug. i have to go.
i'm going to do my job.
[turning back into the living room] i'll give you two minutes. but first i'm gonna tell you that i'm off the drugs and you'll feel silly 'cause you've got nothing to say for two minutes.
because they don't work.
because they come in banana flavor. you know the answer.
i think that my life will be somewhat better if part of my life specifically my leg is somewhat better.
and you're here to tell me that no matter how depressed i may be it's not enough.
[standing and walking past wilson] i hate that word. i have to go now. actually i don't but it would be rude to walk out without saying anything.
[leaning out the window] you need a drink.
that wasn't a question. you really do need a drink.
you're not going to explode. you're just gonna have a seizure which will prove that your kidneys are not working which will also prove that they weren't working saturday night. that's why a glancing body blow sent your blood pressure into the toilet and you onto the canvas.
six.
[looking in the trunk] eight. it's not an exact science.
you're an idiot. [foley looks understandably angry.] no you're not gonna hit me 'cause somewhere deep in that way-too-thin skull of yours you know that you're full of crap. that's why you stopped jogging for me. that's why you drank eight bottles. because even though you want to think that i'm wrong 'cause it's simpler you also desperately want me to be right. i'm only an ass for building your hopes up if i'm wrong. [hands foley another full bottle] last one.
anything else you want to say?
anything else?
nothing to talk about. that was my point.
well whose fault is that? give me another scotch.
this 'cause i'm black? 'cause i'm not so
look you can't get me drunk and then give me crap for being drunk. that's like dumping someone and then giving them crap for being upset. that's just not decent. let me explain why people come here. [he lurches over to the bar.] they come here to drink. which causes us to ask why do people drink? hmm? is it sustenance? [he grabs a guy's bottle of beer and reads the label.] no. is it taste? [he takes a swig of the guy's beer.] no.
is it the company of stout-hearted men? i don't think so. is it killing pain? yes. [looks at the bottle again.] seven and a half percent life duller. that's the business you're in. you're in the screw the world business. you're in the reality sucks and fantasy temporarily appears to not suck business.
no.
have you no pride? either serving me is a good idea or it's a bad idea. shutting me up is a crappy reason for compromising what you believe.
am i gonna have to hit him?
but what if it's the right thing to do? compromise is never the answer. [he turns to fellow patron who is sitting on the side of the bar and gets into a boxing stance.] stand up. i will allow you to throw the first punch.
just as well 'cause i was lying.
training for my big fight. just need you to<U+0097>
that's your specialty.
three two [foley starts to demonstrate but falls over unconscious.] what a lovely day.
ahem! [wilson looks up.] what's this? [house enters] a palm. hmm useful for many things. slapping greasing probably some other applications too. right now it's ready for $50 and humiliation.
he wasn't knocked out by the punch. he was knocked out by the clinch before the punch. took a shot to the back of the neck. more specifically to an abnormal growth of nerves caused by a glomus tumor. kind of like a built-in taser. sent a massive shock to his entire body shut everything down.
oh you are not gonna be like that 'cause you got a lot more posters here.
oh no. he needs surgery. he's never gonna fight again.
better than okay.
look at how much fun she's having.
so do i.
i was going for the sympathy discount. been taking some experimental medicine.
you want proof?
okay this amp stack weighs way more than you do.
see? now even if those implants were made of adamantium i'd still be able to
sorry. cramp.
(sighing) i'm not gonna be needing your services tonight after all.
dr. riggin. figures you'd be wrapping up the trial by now. i just wanted to give you a hearty mazel tov.
what do you mean? what happened?
any indication the rats were getting sick?
ugh!
ah! ugh! ugh!
i tried calling everyone else. you were the last one on the list.
it's not an emergency.
(gasping) i'm not attempting bypass surgery. the tumors are small and they're close to the surface. i thought it'd be like removing a wart.
surgeons are idiots. they'd just hack away at the muscle until they get worn out.
i got one of the tumors. the second one is close. (nodding to the scan on the wall) you can use the ct to help you find the third.
(pleading) just<U+0096>just excise the tumor.
i was trying to make it better.
here we go. wish i had called 911.
well you know i've had a lot of setbacks lately.
there are no cars coming. just go.
(imitating the pirate brownbeard from the cartoon) if you don't want brownbeard to end up with two wooden legs better get yer ma to move this ship you mangy bilge rat.
if you want to lecture me on my poor judgment there would seem to be more relevant examples.
i'm fine.
(to rachel) did you see the new brownbeard episode?
no it was so lame. got a boat full of guy pirates and they make the girl pirate walk the plank.
that's 'cause she had big boobies. that's why he should have kept her.
2:00 a.m. nice of you to call me back.
you've completely run out of ideas and you're calling me to bail you out. i'm touched. hit me.
she on any medication besides crack?
can i guess stuff too? 'cause that's gonna make the diagnosis really easy.
yeah that would have been pre-coma. but how could you have known that it would affect her that way?
how about renal cancer throwing clots?
that's too bad. 'cause that was my one big idea.
tell me more about the patient. what was she doing before prison?
way to bury the lead. how long ago was the shooting?
again you assumed she's had hep-c for ten years. find out when she shot the kid you'll find out when she started taking drugs and when she actually contracted the hep-c.
it's more relevant than what you got now which is squat.
three chicks just came into my bedroom. i got to go. (he disconnects)
wait. i want you in there.
well you can make sure that idiot butcher doesn't cut more than he needs to.
yeah and if that involves chopping off my leg i want to be sure that that's damn well necessary. (he sighs)
i don't trust him. i trust you.
what are you doing here?
hot nurse candy striper someone who doesn't speak english. someone who doesn't speak judgmental.
i have to pee.
(throwing back the blankets) i'm a big boy.
what for trying to walk on a freshly mangled leg? performing surgery on myself? for thinking i could solve my emotional problems with rat medicine? if you're gonna nag at least have the decency to be specific.
can i pee first?
i know.
hey. we were just getting to the good part.
nope. but i subscribe to her patient file.
minor surgery removing a drain.
my doctor says it's okay as long as i don't leave my hospital bed.
nurse.
i do things like that now. i'm making some changes like skipping ahead to minute 37.
philistine.
her assistant. he's been instructed not to intervene. spoiler alert <U+0097> he does. [luca drops what he's holding and wrestles the guy away from afsoun who moves for the first time turning her head to watch them. she looks worried.] for her it is literally heartbreaking. [afsoun falls off her stool and is stretched out on the floor.] let the games begin.
and the pressing issue of shaving your entire body in public while wearing a monkey mask. [he pulls up a picture of that from an on-line article.]
she's not nuts.
what speaks to me is she's elevated being full of crap to a genuine art form and made a fortune doing it. people that pay 20 grand for one of her video stills on the other hand really do need their dorsal nexi checked.
[pulling up the picture of afsoun lying on the floor] carbon monoxide poisoning. it fits. put her in a hyperbaric chamber.
did i text you that? that was meant for my dream journal. i wanted to return your stuff. don't worry. i didn't go awol. i had my wife-maid bring it over.
given your thing for owen wilson i thought you might want those last two back asap.
you masturbate to owen wilson.
oh. it's a symbolic gesture. i want things to go back to the way they were before we started dating <U+0097> no more bad feelings no more issues just work. [she nods skeptically] thanks for coming.
i was self-destructive. it won't happen again. i'm making changes. i'm gonna stop doing stupid things.
i think i could avoid putting another hole in my leg without talking about my mother.
i'm a big believer that the best way to get past the past is to shoot it in the head bury it in a deep pit and pour lye on it.
bring me lunch tomorrow and we can plumb my depths.
what's he been doing since she was admitted? did he bring anything from the patient room to the treatment room?
does she seem like the kind of woman who needs a stuffed animal?
[flirtatious sleazy] what are you wearing? [fake duh expression] oh i can see what you're wearing. go to her room.
[voice on the phone] now go address the elephant in the room.
[voice on the phone] the reason luca couldn't decide what to do in the treatment room is the same as in the gallery. he's been told not to intervene. congratulations. we've become her latest work of art.
our practice opens us up to malpractice.
her being sick is a clue.
thirteen's right <U+0097> at least her conclusion was. everything else was laughably wrong. if the patient induced pancreatitis and a heart attack she'd be suicidal.
exactly. if she wanted to be dead she'd be dead a long time ago. pretending to cheat death pays better than watercolors. coxsackie b fits. but do a spiral c.t. of her biliary tree to rule out gallstones.
sure. i'd be happy to come with you. thanks for asking.
if you really cared about me you wouldn't be so obvious when you scheme to prove me wrong. you volunteered because you want to c.t. her lungs not her biliary tree. you want to find fibrosis and prove your paint thinner theory. if i don't come with when you fail you'll pretend you never tried. i don't really have a choice now do i?
since i've seen your paycheck i probably shouldn't. [he takes the money.] canned beans aren't so bad as long as they're cooked over an oil-drum fire under a bridge with the king of the hobos.
get her out of here and scope her.
sorry. should have scheduled my patient's internal bleeding for thursday.
got you to go all the way to the second floor of a building you work in. boy did i screw with you.
check the sign. it says you got to treat me with intensive care.
all we do is fight.
dominika is a licensed aesthetician.
so all this was about you?
wow i hadn't realized the incredible healing power of lunch.
lunch at 1:00 tomorrow in the cafeteria. you happy?
i don't know. is your mother a number?
shooting up heroin wouldn't explain<U+0097>
it must have been a very distinctively shaped and awfully talkative puncture for you to get all of that.
she was researching me?
now you're just pissing me off.
if you don't know anything then why are you talking?
i'll take it out on whoever i think will irritate you the most.
i didn't realize that search engines could look within the soul.
what the hell was the point of this? what personal trauma are you exploiting. i'm sorry <U+0097> mining for its artistic potential?
why me?
[annoyed] why me?
you know there's a lot of games i could play that don't involve dealing with narcissistic manipulative poseurs.
[quietly] no.
you took an oath an oath to be cool. at least that was the one i mumbled under my breath while everyone else was doing the boring one.
so what? i like the game. it's fun. go get a blood culture. check for parasites and bacteria.
the new house is about making my life healthier. never said anything about yours. go get her blood.
that was incredibly condescending. did it work?
you think she actually is suicidal.
[reaching for his laptop] there is another explanation. the reason she didn't react isn't 'cause she wants to die. it's 'cause she knows she can't do anything about it. whatever she has is fatal. [he turns the screen so thirteen can see the picture house pulled up. afsoun looks drawn and ashen.] that should narrow it down.
testing a theory. it's based on some stuff you can't understand like rr variability and some stuff you can like the fact that she shaved her head in an art piece four months ago.
it was a commentary on the fact that it was gonna fall out anyway and she wanted to hide why.
see that tumor-ish thingamajig near her brainamabob?
are you getting this? game's over. i won. primary cns lymphoma with associated paraneoplastic syndrome.
and then you cleared it. then you realized you could use your death to make your magnum opus. maybe you wanted to show that no one can cheat death even an entire team of doctors with unlimited resources. or maybe your first doctors didn't treat you like a person <U+0097> just a series of symptoms. you wanted to re-create that depersonalization. and i was the man to see.
no i didn't. and i don't actually think your piece is about anything. i think you just figured out that you're mortal. you're just a bag of cells and waste with an expiration date. you wanted to act out. you wanted people to notice. [pause] maybe you even prayed for a different answer this time. [he picks up the elephant cam and holds it at arms length.] i got a title for your piece <U+0097> it doesn't mean anything.
no. [wilson waits.] what you just said implies that i stopped at some point.
you have any idea how much extra work you've just given yourself? you're not gonna last a week.
you've chosen this moment to give me crap about my vicodin use?
so is my leg.
okay. so maybe i am trying to numb myself a little because i'm trying to change trying to stop being self-destructive.
what do you want from me?
no. you know what i feel right now? i don't feel miserable or angry. i don't feel good or bad. i feel nothing which feels great.
moving on. in the direction of my house where i got some more pills.
i'm a doctor. so technically<U+0097>
why are you still here?
it's not eczema. and it's not cancer.
and it'll get worse. but you know dying can also do a number on your ability to think.
good for you.
so.
like the lindbergh baby. you dating anyone?
look it's just standard lunch conversation.
okay well if you've gone over to the we don't talk about things side then i've got a pot roast in the oven. [checks his watch]
well you know what they say <U+0097> once you go gimp
[rubbing his face] you think i have unresolved issues and you are the unresolved issues.
i did it to fix my life. no wait. no i did it because i'm a deeply unhappy person. [raises one finger in hold on a sec manner] no<U+0096>no i did it to get sympathy from you. i did it to piss you off. i did it because i'm not over you. or i was over you and i was moving on. i did it because i wanted to know what it's like not to be in pain. i did it because i want to feel more pain. [cuddy watches but doesn't react.] whatever the reason it was a bad reason and a bad idea. that's all that matters. [getting up fake cheerful] good lunch.
i already did.
get out of my way.
[loud] you want to know how i feel? [two deep breaths then quietly] i feel hurt.
it's not your fault.
sorry. just checking the stitches on my penis. [pulls his jeans up.]
it's healing.
what?
[to luca] get out. [he leaves and he turns to her.] you made a decision.
why?
than what <U+0097> than your brain your abilities? it's where everything comes from <U+0097> any meaning in your life any happiness.
he's already left once. he's gonna leave you again. you don't need to depend on people who are gonna let you down. if you do this you're a pathetic hypocrite. you're saying that your whole life all your work up until him was a pointless<U+0097>
yeah.
the pasta arrabbiata was cold.
cuddy's is on the way. i need to return this.
it was on my mind. i want to get it off.
if i get in trouble? i'm delivering a hair brush.
get out.
[enunciating] get out.
[cheerfully] you're right. i feel much better.
no i think i've had enough. what do you think i should do today?
not tonight. cheers.
