aren't there better ways to spend our time?
uh yeah. actually he is.
can we get on with this?
[sarcastically] exactly i'm black. i sympathize for guys who grew up in the city kept down by the man. [chase smirks.]
it's a bunch of crap. you can't blame society for the fact that you chose to become a killer. the guy's probably a heroin addict that explains the tachycardia which caused the pulmonary edema.
are you serious?
doesn't mean we need to get rid of the death penalty do we? it just means we need to kill more white people. [clarence wakes up with a start.] it's okay you're in a hospital we're taking care of you. [he starts to move around violently.]
blood and urine tests came back clean no sign of opiates in his system. [cameron grabs a marker and is about to write on the board when ]
our job isn't to make sure he can bounce his grandkids on his lap our job is to get him healthy enough to go back to death row.
i'm drawing some blood from your femoral artery.
runs through your groin.
it's really closer to your thigh. technically at this point it seems like your jewels are more for display purposes anyway.
tough guy like you don't need em.
it's a native american symbol. it means the force of life.
yep. got em all fooled.
how's a brother like you go from loving a woman to punching her skull in?
sorry about that. guess i didn't use enough lidocaine.
blood gas came back with a ph of 7.28 and decreased hco3.
i think we should reconsider drugs.
that's why i said reconsider. back in juvie i cut up oregano and sold it as pot.
what if clarence thought he was taking heroin but it was something else?
drugs for tuberculosis.
fine i'll do it.
bradycardia. his heart rate's dropped to 30 it's not going to hold that much longer.
temporary fix?
atropine's only gonna buy you a few hours! we don't even know what's wrong with him <U+0096>
with contrast?
healthy people don't kill other people.
where'd you get these scars?
[prepping a needle] obviously.
well i'm different than you.
take a deep breath. [he sticks clarence in the spine with the needle.] any family history of mental illness?
any siblings?
inspirational story. he doin' time too?
how's his health?
you killed four people. somehow making mac and cheese just the way he wants kind of loses its significance.
if someone asks you to describe me to them what's the first thing you'd tell them?
like if you were setting me up on a blind date. would you describe me to the girl as the black guy a neurologist car thief?
the surgery went fine. they removed almost a foot of necrotic bowel. they're shackling him and taking him to recovery.
fine i'll bite. what the hell are you talking about?
because he's a maniac!
she was cheating on him.
guy attacked him first.
clarence is just ridding the world of bad seeds.
excess testosterone steroids <U+0096>
care to share with the class.
but pheo's extremely rare.
son of a bitch.
looks like they got the pheo out successfully. so what now?
just like that?
that tumor caused random shots of adrenaline which obviously led to the rage attacks that made him become a murderer in the first place.
we could testify at clarence's appeal.
a person's upbringing and their biology are completely different.
you want him to be executed?
got an opinion?
i um i think i'm gonna testify at clarence's appeal.
hallucinations could be caused by
latent neurotoxicity from the chemo treatments.
no nothing on mom. dad split when she was pregnant [ cameron hands house a cup of tea] his medical history is also clean.
blood work and lp were clean.
that ct shows no meningial involvement.
we can do that if you want to ignore what we just discussed.
house. hey house. andie's mri and tox screen were clean. no infection. no neurotoxins.
her oxygen saturation is normal.
it's within range. it's normal.
a lung problem isn't causing hallucinations.
could be some bizarre case of kyphoscoliosis. [chase laughs]
you didn't sleep in.
yeah oddly enough sometimes normal is normal.
guys i know we ruled out infection but if we forget the labs for a minute there is one infection we didn't test for because of her age. neurosyphilis.
if the infection dipped into her cerebral cortex all peripheral functions could be compromised.
maybe it wasn't her idea. i mean she's been around a lot of adults; all the hospital visits the counselors at the cancer camps.
why are we here?
what are we trying to hear?
her aortic valve sounds normal.
a clot could cause mini seizures.
post seizure psychosis; the brain sort of corrects itself after the seizure by hallucinating.
whoa whoa you're trying to say that the tumor threw a clot before we removed it.
i don't know i'd be devastated.
you think her bravery is chemically based.
the amygdala near the hippocampus; it's a big area and a busy one. you blindly cut in there you'll kill her. the only time you're going to see this clot is at autopsy.
we could bolt her to the table.
vestibulocolcular nerve intact.
there!
it was there.
4 millimeters lateral to the hippocampus. i saw it.
i saw it.
4 millimeters lateral to the hippocampus.
you're not there yet. keep going.
i'll do it.
when did you start noticing?
your blood pressure's a little high. i have something new that should help you out. combines a nitrate with a blood pressure pill. it's targeted to african-americans.
yeah well see we tend to have nitric oxide deficiencies. the studies show this drug counteracts that problem. it's the first drug to<U+0097>
what kind of studies are there? they get some patients they give em some drugs
you think this is a tan?
trouble with us black folk we can't tell the difference anymore between racism and everybody gets screwed.
that's just greed. you really want to screw whitie? be one of the few black men to live long enough to collect social security. [rips off a prescription slip]. take the medicine.
well pneumonia can cause dic which can cause cyanotic fingers.
you ever think about writing a book on office politics?
i'm not breaking into my boss's house.
count me in.
so how did you know about her key? you been doing a little handyman work for cuddy yourself?
oh and you consider obsession a negative quality?
there's nothing here. are you ready to go or you got some more stuff you want to sniff?
and blood cultures show he was negative for rat bite fever.
tested negative for marcella nocardia crytococcus
no no his chest x-ray's all wrong for chlamydial pneumonia.
i gave one of my clinic patients a follow up call. your name came up.
he says you gave him the white folks' stuff. this is exactly why black people don't live as long.
he's fine so far. i'm calling him back in. i'm getting him on the right stuff.
good one master.
every slave master thought they were doing the black man a favor. negro can't take care of himself so we'll put him to work. give him four walls a bed. we'll civilize the heathen. i'll tell you what. stop doing us favors. if you're right and we end up back in the jungle with lousy blood pressure medicine it won't be on your head.
same thing the right hand told us before we cut it off. it's the same symptom.
well the lack of dic would explain everything if there were also a lack of anything to explain.
he cleans up at some fast food joint. why? do you think he got it from a chicken nugget?
you've never had an episode like this before?
talk to chase he's rich.
no just the phone. [foreman grabs it as his beeper goes off.]
what's the emergency?
not everyone in the hospital's been exposed to it for the last 20 years.
you think it's his heart? sick sinus syndrome?
hey stress test was normal.
echo's normal.
echo and stress test are more reliable.
never works.
hah hah you're on.
you always tell us our opinion of the patient is irrelevant.
you figure that anybody that gives a crap about people in africa must be full of it?
hmmm. so the great humanitarian's as selfish as the rest of us.
you also always tell us motives are irrelevant. [and sebastian is still going up] dr. charles your heart's handling the changes in orientation just fine. no pauses on your ekg. and house drives up for the lay-up and oh rejected! [heh those doctors and those sports metaphors.]
i'm within protocol range; you're not going to get a different result.
would you stop? you lost. i'm scheduled for clinic duty thursday and friday.
would you turn the damn thing off before you break it? [he slaps house's hand away.]
at those speeds astronauts throw up.
the test revealed problem.
abusive and unprofessional. if he hadn't done it we wouldn't have seen the problem. you've got an abnormal p-r interval. it could be dangerous possibly fatal particularly if you're in africa away from advanced medicine.
you're scheduled for surgery this afternoon.
hey the guy's still sick. can we talk about that? the headaches point to a neurological problem. acoustic neuroma. brian tumour causes dizziness loss of consciousness messes with breathing patterns heart rhythms <U+0096>
explosive diarrhoea fever it's probably the flu.
you're not hale oliver?
they put you in the wrong room cecelia.
sorry. i'll just be a few minutes; don't take these in order and everything falls apart.
i'll go get a nurse.
lie flat. lift your left arm up and under your head? [she does so after unbuttoning her blouse.] right there?
it's nothing. we should check it again on your next cycle but you really don't have anything to worry about.
look the edges are smooth it has mobility it has all the earmarks of a benign
the risks of a false positive on a biopsy outweigh <U+0096>
i'll arrange the biopsy.
fabry's autonomic disregulation syndrome shy-drager syndrome it doesn't matter. he won't let us test him. [the phone begins to ring again. house picks up.]
hey why the page? he okay?
mrs. carter? for what?
you didn't do anything.
house she was scared and unreasonable.
i didn't insult her! i did the unnecessary biopsy like she wanted. [house moves to change the tint on the tv.] it was negative like i knew it would be.
you know cuddy's only doing this because she thinks it's you.
that was classic tb.
good? this is bizarre.
it only intermittently secretes insulin.
we know because the leaves move.
uh we should look the other way. it's cuddy with your patient.
we can't avoid her forever.
i'm going to start him on a glucose drip. he's going to seize
he's continuing to drop.
it's almost noon.
uh i don't even know what that means.
ana is negative for lupus again.
[mocks] find what's missing. for all we know the kid is dying and he's giving us riddles?
and?
fascinating. if it's not a tumor it has to be ms.
mri can't rule out ms 100% of the time.
alcoholism does. on admission his bac was 2.0 liver enzymes off the chart.
if you believe him.
we went though all the imaging studies and re-did blood cultures.
well there's nothing [house revs the engine louder] there's nothing[house revs the engine again.]
there's nothing [engine revs again foreman gives up and stops speaking and house stops revving the engine. everyone including wilson starts to smile foreman tries again] there's nothing else we can do.
on what?
she probably got distracted changing radio stations or something.
you knew this was missing?
nf2. it's an inherited disease [he sticks a long cotton bud to swab the inside of carnell's cheek] could cause abnormal growths in the cranial nerves. it would explain the shocks and other symptoms
we think your wife may have had it
that's not what the police report indicated
what's that smell?
[pulls down carnell's blankets he's literally pooped himself] we're going to need a nurse
[takes out his pen and pushes the point against carnell's big toe] you feel that?
sphincter paralysis plus shocks equals miller fisher syndrome
mom's death is irrelevant. dna revealed no nf2 markers or any other inherited disease. apparently she really did fall asleep at the wheel.
yeah? where?
of course! the riddles.
transverse myelitis. could cause numbness anal sphincter dysfunction and the shocks.
well we've ruled out cancer and ms leaves infection
maybe the infection's gone but the memory remains
who cares?
i'm sure his mom's a piece of work! only a mother could do that much damage.
yeah he was either a fast runner or one hell of a fighter. [to cameron who's walking to another door away from where the ducklings were probably supposed to go to do the tests] where are you going?
an infectious agent's molecular structure can resemble the spinal cord's. when the immune system attacks the infection it ends up attacking the spinal cords as well.
if the infection is gone it goes right on attacking because the spinal cord is still there
if you're nauseous [he brings a small metal bowl to put under carnell's mouth]
one of his friends flew them down. carnell's dad has this thing about him accepting stuff from rich friends. wants him to remember who he is where he came from.
it wasn't for marijuana. he doesn't do anything but drink
even if he'd smoked no way marijuana causes transverse myelitis
why would he come clean about the trip but lie about smoking pot?
you have no evidence to support a poisoning diagnosis.
haven't been in yet today.
i told house not to--
[aside to cuddy] lawyer's not going to believe this.
so all we have to answer is what causes a 22-year-old kid to become immuno-compromised with gi involvement and shocks.
i'm out too. what? house is a freak! there's no virus that causes that no dna mutation. you're going to have one dinner with two people sixty minutes. most of it spent chewing and talking about the weather. unless they say something like do you prefer the chardonnay or the merlot? and oh we kept greg locked in the closet for 17 years [cameron laughs chase smiles] you're not going to learn anything.
even if it is kaposi's it's not related. our patient doesn't have any skin symptoms and we've already ruled out cancer.
what's wrong?
we need a surgeon and an or stat!
but it means the antibiotics aren't working.
soon as he's out of surgery.
his clothes?
the chances of radiation causing cns symptoms?
whoa.
the measurements weren't high enough to cause central nervous system damage.
mr hall... it's not good news.
the piece of metal that you gave carnell was from an industrial device used to test welds. people aren't supposed to just dump radioactive material...
anyone who's had contact with the source will have to immediately get treatment for radiation sickness. taddy carried it on his lap on the flight--
transfusions. and then we try to get the fluids and electrolytes balanced. carnell... he's had much more exposure. the equivalent of about 70000 chest x-rays. his ability to create white blood cells has been completely destroyed.
he's going to need a bone marrow transplant. and we did a... we did another pet scan. there's a cavernous angioma within his spinal cord it's a tumour. that's what's been causing the shocks and cns symptoms.
yeah. the cord is... is made of strands put together. sort of like a kite string. the surgeon should be able to pull the strands apart and excise the tumour but surgery on someone who is as hemopoetically compromised as your son is... it's extremely risky.
the tumour could cause his breathing to stop. possibly his heart as well. there's no way you could have known. [foreman watches ken trying to deal with his emotions while cameron and chase start moving carnell's bed to take him to another room] you're going to have to come with us you need to start treatment yourself.
but he can't. he needs to be in a sterile isolation room to prevent further infections.
they're talking about mom's last trip to the dentist. grown children talking to their parents nothing gets talked about. trust me you're not missing anything.
it's the doping. injecting extra red cells boosts your endurance level but it also thickens your blood. thick blood equals clots equals respiratory distress
oh! air.
this guy's been injecting himself how many times a day? all it'd take is one slip of the needle to cause an air embolus.
xenon 133 it's just radioactive enough for us to track the air movement through your lungs
yeah you made page of the week
we inject similar stuff into your blood so we can watch it circulate. now if you accidentally injected a bubble we'll see you get air flow but poor blood flow.
with all due respect man i doubt there's anything wrong with you that you didn't do to yourself
er guys? he plays a game for a living. who cares? [looks at cameron] and you you don't even like sports!
anyone who thinks they should pay a guy money because he can throw a ball really far or pedal really fast deserves to be ripped off
i've got an uncle he can spit a cherry pit 50 yards. he's working part time at a lube shop! life isn't fair!
he's too young for that
he's too old for that
oh don't start her up again.
so if you break an arbitrary rule cameron damns you to hell but if you break a rule that actually has a reason that's designed to protect people cameron develops a crazy crush on you.
so why don't you report jeff to the biking authorities?
well you wouldn't be doing it to glorify yourself you'd just be trying to make a better world.
he can barely move his arms or legs.
no just general weakness.
ana for lupus also negative.
oh god you too?
well if that's true then his white cells are up too which would point to some kind of infection.
glad to be here. the lumbar puncture will tell us what kind of infection you've got. in the meantime we're administering antibiotics.
his sats are dropping he's in respiratory arrest.
apparently not [they proceed to intubate jeff]
lp was negative for encephalitis.
we'll get a chest x-ray to check.
paraneoplastic syndrome?
well he's negative for bleeds.
philosophically interesting medically irrelevant.
i assume if i point out the fact that you have no right to do that you'll interpret that as a sign of guilt?
he's a very cautious man. your breathing's better let the prednisone do its job get some sleep.
his red blood cell count plummeted to 16 percent. he passed out had to be rescusitated and still can't move his legs.
had to give him a blood transfusion he's back around 30.
well he was losing blood so i thought maybe he needed blood.
[laughs] find what?
no way.
how'd you know to look in his neck? thymoma's usually present in the chest
all the more reason not to think--
he was treating himself without even knowing it.
have you read his file?
he went to an hiv clinic last week. tested negative for tb pcp mac cmv hsv. it's not an infection.
face it; this might be an interesting case.
his meds made him so much better he made himself sick. sounds pretty--
bad time? where are you?
his heart looks a little enlarged.
whoa we can hardly hear you. where are you?
he coughs infected blood in cameron's eyes and mouth that's interesting?
you know some human beings are actually capable of human feelings.
ks on his face could mean ks in his lungs with bleeding from the lesions.
you have another case?
wry neck. is he an athlete?
any pain associated with movement.
best case scenario an infection in the ear or lungs; worst case brain stem tumor. should do an mri cat scan full work-up.
heart rate's a hundred and climbing could be an allergic reaction.
tear in his lungs must have re-opened.
only one other thing could cause this; a tumor in his heart.
that's why his heart's enlarged not the azt.
it's not 1980. we know how hiv is transmitted! if kalvin got hiv through unprotected sex dad has every right to be pissed!
uhh... yeah!
huh not ready for any foreman juniors yet.
checking your sister's cerebral coordination.
she could have gone to the er last night.
it's probably articular; maybe rheumatoid.
takayasu's arthritis.
gimme.
no she'd have oral sores.
she'd have oral sores.
i thought she had behcet's.
she burst an artery?
can't see use more saline.
systolic bp's 70.
second ulcer?
because he doesn't give a crap about patients.
yeah. he smiles all 84 of his teeth tells them his tonsil story.
he still has his tonsils! as soon as he's out of the room which is as soon as he can be out of the room he starts in on the trash talk. thinks not giving a crap makes him like house. like it's something to aspire to. [stacy nods.] am i going to have to testify?
what'd house say?
she burst an artery?
systolic bp's 70.
second ulcer?
let's go. [the nurses wheel kayla after him.]
but she's ab negative. very rare.
probably another day or two.
how'd you get checked out so fast?
her ast and alt are up. she's rejecting the liver.
transaminases are up too.
you paid off that lab tech to say you were clean?!
to meet some mexican guy in the back of a van with a pig's liver and a hacksaw?! this is nuts!
she's being manipulated by a morally guilty brother and a legally guiltier doctor.
chase. how many people you know walking around with a black market organ from a third world surgeon huh? this isn't going to be your salvation! it's just one more thing they'll pin on you! go in there be the good guy.
no he's not.
the man's an addict.
it's the same thing! drug abuse drinking gambling <U+0096> they all fire up the same pleasure centers in the brain. an addict is an addict is <U+0096>
her platelets are 89 she's anemic and she has a blood alcohol level of 0.13.
alcohol abuse explains it all. causes seizures and affects her blood's ability to clot which causes bruising. start her on heparin she'll be fine by morning.
so the bruises were caused by trauma. she probably got beat up by a boyfriend or a pimp.
she's a regular at otb. somehow i don't see her holding down a 9-to-5 and going to pta meetings.
not the anemia.
dic brought on by alcohol abuse is far more likely. do a full workup h and p and lab her up lp mri <U+0096> [he starts to leave.]
cuddy put me in charge last week so yeah.
hey no worries. i'll let you keep your parking space.
and i expect you here for grand rounds at nine. by the way i like sugar in my coffee.
actually it was cameron's idea.
yeah you're all about the nurturing.
i don't see any regrowth. you get her medical records faxed over?
take that as a no. anica i need you to stay completely still.
still don't see anything.
so small it's not even there.
results from her lp back yet?
go do the lp.
right the fact that you mangled her lp has nothing to do with it.
her initial symptoms could have been caused by alcohol-induced dic. she had a hypertensive crisis because it's been at least six hours since she had her last drink. she's detoxing.
right an invisible tumor on her pituitary is much more likely.
fine do it. but when you don't find anything put her on a librium taper for the withdrawal and get her a bed in the rehab clinic.
you ordered mris for the entire maternity ward?
what do you expect me to do house? quit? cry?
well since you asked nicely
keep it coming. i'm not gonna break. [chase and cameron enter.]
what's up?
great i'll be sure to put a gold star by your name on the board. anica's biopsy for pancreatic cancer was negative. [he leaves.]
good news she's not sick at all. other than being an alcoholic.
chase hold on. [chase stops.]
and more dangerous.
so don't get caught house.
munchausen's patients are good at covering their tracks.
it's possible the surgeons just missed it. in that kind of surgery you're just cutting and hoping <U+0096>
do the venous sampling. get her consent. [cameron rolls her eyes and leaves.]
i just agreed with you.
you chose me to make house miserable didn't you?
find someone else.
i only did that stuff to prove that he couldn't make me miserable.
so i'm stuck with this for the next three weeks.
patient being prepped for the venous sampling?
yeah we get your objection. [phone rings; chase picks it up and hands it to house who hands it to foreman.] foreman. are you sure? that doesn't make any sense check it again. we got to delay the venous sample.
how would you know that?
you set her up?
also the sign of a sociopath. what are you doing?
what? you got some other explanation for orange urine? it's munchausen's.
you just don't wanna admit that she skunked you.
you're not telling the story now i am.
she's not getting sicker.
no no more tests.
we do more tests we'll only be feeding her psychosis. the more attention we give her the more she'll want.
house you were wrong. live with it.
fine. you wanna test the extra blood knock yourself out. but the patient is off-limits.
dr. wilson can i talk to you about something in confidence?
it's about house.
do you think there's any way house would take me seriously as his boss?
we talked. she intimated.
it's not a coup. i just want to figure out some way we can work together. i mean i keep the team running from an administrative point of view; house doesn't have to deal with the red tape. it's a win-win.
you have any advice on how to approach him? deal with the guy?
but you won't tell him we talked.
fetal hemoglobin's also elevated.
uh you see that in sickle-cell.
none of her other blood panels showed any sign of sickle-cell which means either something's changed drastically since yesterday or this isn't her blood.
nurses called the attending as soon as the trocar was ordered.
so barely out the door and she has another seizure.
once she's stable we need to get her out of here before she does more damage to herself.
white count hematocrit and platelets are all off. the bone marrow's shutting down she actually has aplastic anemia.
you were right.
i'll go give her the news.
i'm dr. foreman; i'm in charge of your case. you have aplastic anemia which means your bone marrow is shut down. your body can't make new blood anymore.
i went back and checked your old records. it makes sense. the aplastic anemia has apparently been developing for months. i'm sorry we should have caught it earlier.
i know this is scary but a bone marrow transplant could cure you.
the other option is weekly blood transfusions injections of gcsf. it's a lifelong regimen.
you sure? i don't want to be cruel here but you've jumped through a lot of hoops to get this sort of attention.
it's not so much fun when you're actually sick.
we'll check the registry see if there's a donor match.
now what?
the body does crazy things. well that explains everything!
whoa whoa whoa. you're taking the safe course? what's going on?
that's brilliant of her. take the exact medication that would confirm your diagnosis.
you injected her against her will just so you could be right.
she's mentally ill!
if you were serious about the offer i'm serious about accepting. i'd like to run the department. you said it yourself things run smooth.
there was no reason to suspect an infection. even house didn't think it was an infection. you would have done the same thing i did.
he got lucky.
did you ever really intend to give me this job or were you just trying to stop me from stepping down?
she should have died. house is not a hero. a person who has the guts to break a bad rule they're a hero. house doesn't break rules he ignores them. he's not rosa parks he's an anarchist. all he stands for is the right for everyone to grab whatever they want whenever they want. you tell doctors that's okay your mortality rate is gonna go through the roof.
we are.
so? i'm board certified.
why'd you put me in charge of the department if you think i can't handle it?
what are the symptoms?
i need to know the symptoms to know which hospital to recommend.
hmm! neurological problem. now i know a lot of good people in that field seeing as i happen to be a neurologist.
not at all! taylor's pretty good. house was ready to hire him until he got my resume.
i get it. famous patient needs famous doctor. i'll call taylor.
or... maybe you should call him? what if i say something stupid?
mr. stone you think you're speaking normally but your speech is impaired. [he turns to elizabeth.] he knows what he wants to say but when he reaches for a word he finds something else.
it all sounds right to him. [he takes a pad of paper and a pen out and turns to fletcher.] i want you to write your name and draw a face.
how hard did he hit his head?
[he turns back to fletcher again.] do you understand what i'm saying?
don't give me a sentence. just a yes or a no. you understand me?
if he didn't trip something made him fall. stroke? seizure?
if it was a stroke could be a clotting issue.
chase we're not done with the differential.
i'm house's boss house is your boss. the math is pretty simple.
this is not about that.
somebody's gotta be in charge.
what? you think we should all do whatever we want to do? maybe have a race to the diagnosis.
[he is using an ultrasound machine on fletcher's throat.] this will show us if there's a problem with your carotid artery that might cause a blood clot. if it went to his brain it could explain the aphasia and the falling down.
we're just covering all the bases being safe.
[listens to fletcher's lungs with his stethoscope.] fluid in his lungs
we need to intubate he's losing his respiratory drive.
and then there were two. aphasia and fluid in the lungs. seizure can't cause both.
unless he had an abnormal heart rhythm.
amphetamines don't cause pulmonary edema.
in one of his books he talked about giving up drugs and alcohol how it changed his life.
encephalitis or meningitis are the obvious suspects. start him on antibiotics.
[he goes to pick up the phone.] foreman.
[he puts house on speakerphone. scene shifts between house in the airport and ducklings in the office.] 101. how'd you know?
the man can't talk his medical records are sketchy and wife's only known him a couple of years.
ct scan was negative.
the man can't talk!
he's been lying to her about his drug habit?
and... now? a.e.?
but the drugs...?
so he started with sleeping pills.
there's a little edema brain swelling and an area of scarring.
actually that's what's odd. the scarring is not in the area of the brain normally associated with conduction aphasia. and it's old. happened before he hit his head. maybe a small stroke or some other underlying condition that could be causing this or it might have nothing to do with it at all. [he looks at fletcher.] have you ever had head trauma before? an accident? [fletcher shakes his head.] ever had any numbness on one side before? dizziness?
not doing an lp with this edema. we could paralyze him.
person you're trying to reach is out of the area or has turned off their phone.
we need more information.
[slyly.] we'll break into his place.
fine. [chase and foreman quickly walk off.]
dinner.
oh sorry. reservation for two.
nothing.
caffeine pills and amphetamines. same stuff he told us he was taking.
anticonvulsive? he said there was no history of prior seizures.
still doesn't explain his fever. probably just using it for weight loss.
he wanted to hide something from his wife why wouldn't he hide it in the office?
[pulls back a plastic cover sheet and finds an unfinished building project for new kitchen cabinets.] looks like this stuff's been sitting here for weeks.
you got a point to make? or did you just feel like giving a long unnecessary explanation for something medically irrelevant?
i never said that.
it's different. yeah.
it's either meningitis or encephalitis. [cameron glares.] or maybe auto-immune.
it's obvious we have to do the lumbar puncture there's no choice anymore.
what are you talking about?
he could know the answer to the meaning of life the man can't communicate!
you're scheduled for a lumbar puncture but you shouldn't count on that having the answers. if your husband continues to decline...
you're on speakerphone.
now all we need is the english-aphasic dictionary.
what about rhymes? pain? brain?
let's start this again. bear - is it bare as in naked?
we've been talking to him for hours. maybe he's just given up.
maybe it's not a rhyme or a synonym.
tell her there's been a miscommunication over their insurance coverage. not a big deal.
i... brought you a coffee? [he offers her the cup of coffee he's been holding.]
yeah.
let us know when something sounds right. [reads from the whiteboard] dirty soiled pain brain--
where does that get us? we're already paying plenty of attention to his brain. we've got an mri we've got a ct...
house you still there?
and if it's done by gamma knife there's no trace of cutting. that's the neural scarring we saw on the mri.
yep [he quickly puts down the phone.]
cerebral malaria.
if a human being had actually looked at his blood anywhere along the way instead of just running tests through the computer... parasites would have jumped right out at them.
probably suffered head trauma in the car accident. trauma leads to the dyskinesia.
sudden movement disorder could be a symptom of huntington's.
she's not pregnant.
whatever you want.
you quack people shoot at you. cuddy just put me here to make you miserable. another two days you can go back to making yourself miserable.
it could also be neurological. we need to get an mri.
you should take her out of the room. we're going to temporarily stop margo's spasms.
vecuronium. it's a paralytic. essentially cuts off the brain from the muscles. [he sees daughter is crying.] don't worry. your mom will be just fine.
your vitals will be watched closely. i'm going to close your lids so your eyes don't dry out. [he closes them with his fingers like you would a dead person. the image goes black.] just try to relax.
could you wiggle your toes for me? [she does; ted and stella get up from a chair.]
it could be a variety of things [margo takes ted's hand her hand spasms a little.] some treatable; others more serious. [approaches her mouth with a cheek swab.] open up. we're gonna run a genetic test for huntington's.
for the time being yeah. but it could cure you.
hyper-vigilance sudden irritability...
the patient now defines huntington's.
we got a problem.
she's having a psychotic break.
all the signs are there. movement disorder psychosis... it should be huntington's.
you know patient is prime age to develop spontaneous schizophrenia.
i could've covered this. you need to get that test today.
forgive us for being concerned. [he comes clean.] i got a bet with house. [cam makes a face.] he says you're too scared to get it i say you're too anal not to. [cam rolls her eyes.] i'll cut you in.
who would've known? searching a high-end family home for illicit narcotics was such an obvious choice.
little bump on the run?
prescribed to her daughter.
it's possible the kid's meds are the kid's meds.
well ritalin maybe explains some tics some involuntary--
tox screen will confirm that.
we're not done. we have to confirm the diagnosis before we send her home to die of something else.
yeah. well i'm still signing the charts. so until tomorrow you're not allowed to kill anyone. [walks away.]
i hope he is getting some. maybe he'll mellow out.
could be a protein c deficiency.
i still don't think ritalin--
no cancer.
biopsy's painful and unnecessary. we just did an ultrasound.
what?
what are we waiting for?
he went to hopkins.
there it is.
it's a liver tumor.
we can't. it's vascular.
you saying the ct was wrong?
side effects of the ritalin caused the--
i'm not saying anything until the metaphor plays itself out.
so the surgeon got the whole tumor. and it was benign.
yeah. benign is good.
confidentiality rules stop me from telling your husband the truth. but my obligation to lie ends there.
margo you're gonna have risks with everything; especially if you're not telling your fertility doctor. if you keep doing this it's gonna kill your marriage and kill you.
i'll take that bet. it's the perfect marriage. there's nothing to fight over if you never talk about anything.
been looking for you.
if they could handle it they wouldn't be asking for you. [foreman takes out his mobile phone to check something; then he tosses the patient's file into house's lap. house rolls his eyes.] is that a journal?
in hindi?
tachycardia can be explained by the burn.
which can also be explained by the burn.
could be amphetamines.
where do we get one?
plug it in.
fine give me the cord. [he plugs it in the galvanometer starts drawing the heart waves on to the paper.] works. prominent u waves.
q wave normal. [looks again.] that's not good.
chase! turn it off! turn it off!
he had a seizure.
could be ms seizures could be caused by plaques and lesions on the brain.
no nuclear imaging. [house walks back.] he wouldn't survive the move to radiology. mri and ct scan are both out.
she said brain not pregnant woman's uterus. they do sound alike.
why didn't you take the patient to radiology get an mri?
you're not going to get a diagnosis of ms from a sonogram!
[looks concerned.] chase. near the subarachnoid space. [chase looks at the screen in alarm.]
we found a subarachnoid bleed.
or bacterial meningitis.
there's no way to tell without--
can you get it?
we're looking for the bleed--
something that disrupts brain function. plaques are perfect interrupt neuron communication.
no. ms is complicated i think this is more basic. it's just tachycardia and seizures. how much longer the burn unit guys gonna keep him in that thing?
[into the intercom.] get the anesthesiologist in here now!
[looks in through the other window in the chamber.] that's not pain. [back into the intercom.] need some help in here.
it'll knock you out for a couple of hours.
yeah.
[takes the bottle of weber's cure from house's hand.] weber's meds aren't even legal in the us.
err moving around is a bad idea. hey if you feel chest pain you need to let me know. verapamil can cause congestive heart failure.
hey you're going to feel some dizziness definitely going to be constipated.
no something's seriously wrong with him. [he draws a circle on the side of his forehead in the almost-universal gesture of a crazy person.]
we're not stalling you we just don't know. [the ducklings all take seats around where their mentor lies.]
if sensory information got misinterpreted by the medial forebrain bundle it's possible for bad to feel good and good to feel bad.
infectious neuropathies vasculitic neuropathies
i said infection about 8 seconds ago.
pus on his arm isn't causing problems in the forebrain.
so we just wait for his burns to heal to see if you're right? if you're wrong he doesn't have that kind of time.
by amputating legs.
you should have been better by now.
no no no way. i only saw a cervical tap once and that guy got paralyzed.
something's causing his brain to lose control. eventually it'll shut off. we need to do a lumbar puncture to get some of the fluid in his spine so we can test it.
i have to warn you there's a serious risk of paralysis or death.
you have to do this.
i just think you should know.
needle. [chase passes it to him.]
it's not going in.
i'm going one space higher.
not helping! [the monitors start beeping.]
i'm getting it.
i'm in the space give me the vial. [chase quickly does so and they collect the spinal fluid. the monitors stop beeping erratically.]
he doesn't have ms or an infection.
wrong protein. igm not igg. elevation was probably caused by the bleed.
how can you still be on ms?
we can't scan for them the only test we can do we just did and it was negative. he has no tingling no numbness. and you read his history; parents didn't say anything about--
we can't look into his brain but you want us to read his mind?
hey you find him?
he ok?
you look better.
mind if i ask what?
that's not diagnostic of depression. lack of appetite isolating yourself--
so what? depression and seizures aren't correlated.
antidepressants have been known to cause seizures in kids but not orgasms. this is a brain in trouble.
if adam has serotonin storm it's deadly.
hepatic encephalopathy?
i know he is. [he rushes into the prep room and quickly tries to wash his hands.] house! you can't do this!
give me the syringe.
hey! [he grabs house's arm.] you gotta stop this!
yeah sure i'm not letting you go until you give me that syringe.
[he looks down at it - it's a circular burn mark on adam's wrist in the middle of what is otherwise unblemished skin.] a burn.
why not on his wrist?
so what?
so a drop of burning gasoline fell on his wrist a screw from the atv [he manages to finally get the syringe from house.]
okay let's start crossing out withdrawal symptoms. (he goes over to the whiteboard.)
there's no age limit on addiction.
i thought you didn't believe in god.
fine. we'll set her up on a program; they'll wean her onto the methadone.
lab reports show that your daughter had heroin in her system. were you aware of her drug use?
we think she's suffering from withdrawal symptoms. detoxing generally takes several weeks; the danger is that if the drugs are masking some other illness it could worsen before we've weaned her off the heroin.
we don't know because we don't know what's wrong. there is a rapid detox procedure. we flush her system with an opioid antagonist. it'll end her addiction over night. but the process is dangerous because we have to induce a coma. it also means that if she ever relapses there's a good chance she'll overdose because her body won't react to the drug.
there are certain risks; we've gone over them with your father.
she's stable now. the anesthesia
anterograde amnesia short term memory loss evidence of a hypoxic brain injury; might be the result of getting cut off from the oxygen when she flat lined. probably the result of that rapid detox you told us to push on her. you gonna put that down? (house puts down his celeb' magazine and inhales holds his breath.) you gonna sulk? (house shakes his head.) i'm not gonna indulge you. (house checks his watch.) treatment for hypoxic brain injuries consist of (house exhales.)
memory loss. you're saying that's not a neurological symptom?
your theory has the advantages of being completely unprovable and completely exculpating you.
why would your mind go to abuse so fast?
you were abused?
i don't know if it has something to do with this case or if you have something personal going on. the whole break up thing--
house. your pain is affecting your decision making.
are you saying pain can't affect your mood? if i'm right about the pain you're going to want to rush everything; which is what you're doing. don't.
you're wrong about ptsd and i was wrong about the hypoxic brain injury. daddy didn't do this to her and neither did we.
okay elevated proteins in her csf could mean dozens of different things viral encephalitis cnsv.
whoa whoa whoa you really think we need to jump straight to brain biopsy?
we're gonna do something called a burr hole biopsy. we drill a small opening in the back of your skull--
no.
i think she should have a say in what happens to her body. (she looks from one to the other and twitches.) we're gonna remove a small piece of brain tissue.
hair grows back.
there's a good chance the amnesia's only temporary. (she twitches.)
well you did the right thing. if you hadn't gone to cuddy i would have.
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis heller syndrome.
paraneoplastic syndrome is awfully rare in a fifteen year old.
there's no test for paraneoplastic syndrome.
it wasn't definitive.
enough.
it's gotta be cancer. there's gotta be something we missed.
if it was ptsd the twitching wouldn't have magically disappeared when we started the ivig.
how long has the social worker been in there?
you switched the girl's iv?
when's she gonna start twitching?
you had what's called an absence seizure. anything like that happen to you before?
for acid reflux and a headache? [shakes his head]
his right testicle is almost twice as big as his left.
lp showed some white cells but his mri is clean.
are you talking about the left temporal lobe?
it's just a shadow.
blood and urine were negative for syphilis gonorrhea and chlamydia.
we think you may have a sexually transmitted disease.
sir maybe we should speak in private? [we see amy behind foreman in a wider shot]
the tests were negative.
nothing good. if you've been having sex you have to tell me.
he hasn't had sex in over a year.
he knows what's at stake. we should start treating him for lymphoma right away. maybe if we hit him hard and fast--
people have impulse control we don't need sex.
i told him we could talk privately he didn't care if she was there.
it's not an std. lymphoma wouldn't erupt that suddenly.
strep viridans can hit the heart.
his heart muscle's half-dead. he'll be lucky to last a week.
i'm sorry. they voted no.
might have a week.
the organ procurement coordinator just left the hospital.
hey she's got hepatitis c her alts are three times normal. with henry's immune system down an infected heart will kill him.
she tested positive.
she's sick.
my point is even if it's not hep c it's something. they turned it down as a donor because if we put that heart into someone they won't survive. whatever made her sick will kill him.
she probably has hep c and a bad case of the flu.
you really don't need to be here.
perfectly round. now hep c would explain--
cavernous hemangioma?
[takes the scan from cameron] err... ameba infection?
maybe we should just biopsy it.
i don't see that we have a lot of choice. the only way we're going to find that infection--
diet pills could have messed her up. raised her liver enzymes and caused the belly ache.
maybe something else set off the fever.
[he passes one to foreman] no it's not.
it isn't helpful. teenage boys aren't toxins.
fitzhugh-curtis syndrome? pushing gonorrhea again?
if they're into rape fantasies s&m is on the menu as well. neck trauma could cause vocal chord paroxysms which could cause choking.
could be neurological. progressive bulbar paralysis would explain the symptoms.
you were right it's not his throat it's his lungs.
it's definitely interstitial pulmonary fibrosis. what's not definite is the cause. there's no arthritis no sarcoidosis he's not on any prescription meds and he's a wedding photographer so i doubt he got exposed to coal dust or asbestos at work.
wait for what?
it's possible the ipf could just continue to <U+0096> [all of the team's beepers go off and the three rush off.]
where are you going?
lupus could cause lung scarring and a rash.
we've already ruled out allergies.
we're in the men's room.
i thought you didn't believe there was anything wrong in his throat.
nor does he drink well water eat fish every day or do anything else that could've exposed him to heavy metals.
people can metabolize toxins at different rates. we'll test it to be sure. have you done any recent renovations?
have any problems with bugs or rodents?
use bug spray?
yeah i can tell. [he sees an ant crawling across a picture.]
she says she doesn't use bug spray <U+0096>
some ants are poisonous. maybe <U+0096>
big and brown.
beyonce.
it's not heavy metals!
means there's a neurological problem.
lupus could cause <U+0096>
so it's not a typical case! we should get an ana <U+0096>
suction!
his urine has elevated proteins and red blood cells. it's lupus-induced kidney failure. if we don't start treatment <U+0096>
so would lupus nephritis! and it also causes tissue swelling.
the corticosteroids we gave him should control the inflammation and can cause facial swelling.
i'm doing an ana and a serum complement.
cortical steroids aren't the only treatment for lupus nephritis! we can also try cyclophosphamide or immunosuppressants!
so now you suddenly believe in tests?
the symptoms all point to heavy metal poisoning. yeah we all get it. unless you've got proof and can tell me which heavy metal it is i'm starting treatment for lupus.
systemic lupus erythematosus causes the immune system to become hyperactive attack normal tissue. it could be what caused the lung inflammation as well as the swelling in his throat and now what appears to be damage to his kidneys. the treatment's usually steroids.
if the tests confirm we're on the right track there are other medications we can try.
well lupus it's a chronic condition but it's generally controllable.
in rare cases it can cause cardiovascular or renal failure.
yeah.
call a code! [wilson and house look on.] charging 360 give him epi! clear!
charging! clear!
he was without oxygen for less than a minute can't be hypoxia. could be a stroke.
back up.
there's nothing more to discuss. we've got lung and kidney failure neurological symptoms and now cardiac arrest. a systemic disease with multi-organ involvement is the definition of lupus.
interferon isn't an approved treatment for lupus.
because it doesn't make sense! there's no fever!
but if it is lupus interferon could make it worse. suppress his bone marrow even further.
we didn't miss anything.
intravenous interferon has been shown to be effective against some viral infections.
the increasingly rapid progression of the symptoms has caused us to reconsider.
there are risks with interferon especially in a patient who's already immunosuppressed. [to bob] look at this point your lungs kidneys and heart are all failing. we really don't have any choice. [bob nods.]
it's not working. both his lungs and his kidneys are continuing to deteroriate.
we already have.
i don't think it's a virus. we've been running titers for everything we could think of they're all negative. [house's beeper beeps.]
house <U+0096>
no.
maybe he was having an affair?
he must have done something to her.
i didn't say he deserved it.
shouldn't one of us stay with her? if she tries to run <U+0096>
six months after the transplant she doesn't need to be confined to a clean room.
any of you have a new soap? detergent? perfume?
[looking at melinda] and you haven't been outside recently?
until we've cleared this up [shakes his head]
it's up to your parents but err... medically there's no reason...
she asked my opinion.
when i was eight my mom she... she hated--
you're not just being overprotective; you're one of the most overprotective parents i've ever seen!
just giving you my thoughts.
i've seen her file.
cameron!
[listening with a stethoscope] no murmurs no friction no obstruction--
crackling two thirds of the way up.
we've got 2 puzzle pieces from 2 different puzzles.
what if there really are two puzzles?
we explained the anaphylaxis.
and heart problems aren't so rare for someone who's had a heart transplant. i say we assume house was right about the anaphylaxis--
[he snatches the whiteboard marker from house and starts writing] heart failure could be either infection coronary disease or rejection.
ok we can all stare at each other or we can investigate what caused the heart failure. just the heart failure. you wanna give me that black marker?
let's do a ct get a heart biopsy... [scene fades out]
not yet. so i hear you don't want teenagers having sex. teen suicide rate isn't high enough for you already?
yeah it's the daughter's fault has nothing to do with mom infantilising her.
what's this? [looks at the scan of the heart on the screen]
yeah the kind made of muscle that opens your heart valves. it's nothing. she's clean.
it's good news. you don't show any signs of coronary artery disease.
well blood work to rule out infection and then a heart surgical biopsy to rule out rejection.
no.
hopefully we'll find the problem and fix it. you'll keep your heart a long time.
there could be drug breakthroughs that allow you to keep it for decades more.
[looks uncomfortable] that's about the average.
melinda you've got bigger worries right now than missing school. until we figure out what's wrong with your heart the safest place for you to be is right here.
biopsy was negative for rejection.
showed no infection.
mrs bardach it could have just been a one-time thing.
no.
to see her boyfriend?
[suddenly realises] she wants to be outside. [he runs to the staircases and up to the roof]
if you're trying to scare your parents great job. can we go back now?
[sits down near melinda] when i was 8-yrs-old i was sick. well not really sick but the point is my mom she could--
melinda you had heart failure. this is kind of an insane time to be criticising your mom about being overprotective.
everything is going to be alright.
come on. [he helps her stand up and lets her walk on down ahead of him. he watches for a moment] woah woah melinda please walk back towards me.
please?
it's called steppage gait.
not necessarily. [to melinda] now stick your leg out hold it up.
ct ruled out brain damage. put your leg down. relax.
fasciculation.
it's paralysis. and it's ascending.
to start with. [melinda looks horrified]
it's ascending fast; she can hardly extend her leg now.
penicillin allergy explains the allergic reaction much better.
how about we stipulate? you argue that there must be something to connect all 3 symptoms you mocked us for not figuring it out and finally you let us discuss the paralysis on its own because it's what's gonna to kill her. now it's ascending mri's are clean so rule out stroke or aneurysm.
progression's too quick.
too slow. it's most likely guillain-barre.
not unless she's been walking around on her hands the last couple of days. botulism paralysis is descending not ascending.
we ran more tests on your daughter. we took a lumbar puncture; got some spinal fluid and we brought it to the lab to look for infections that could be affecting her brain. we also did an emg to check how her muscles and nerves are responding to electrical impulses. unfortunately her muscles are showing increased weakness above the knee.
the lp and pcrs ruled out polio and west nile. we think its guillain-barre. her body's immune response goes haywire starts attacking the peripheral nerves. it causes muscle weakness and paralysis.
it's serious but guillain-barre usually responds very well to plasmapheresis.
you see the plasma the clear liquid part of her blood contains most of the antibodies which are overreacting and attacking her nervous system. the machine spins her blood in a centrifuge and separates parts of the blood based on weight. white blood cells are the heaviest then the red cells then platelets and plasma. we discard the stuff that's causing all the trouble and return the good blood cells back to her body in a replacement fluid. if it works we'll see results in a couple of days.
reflexes are marginally weaker.
sometimes it takes a few treatments for the plasmapheresis to work.
she ok?
i'm sure she's exhausted. mood swings are common with the anti-rejection meds.
she's losing accessory muscles.
no hives.
her lips are cyanotic we've got to intubate.
she's not getting enough oxygen we've got to assist her breathing.
it's the paralysis. it's reached her lungs.
too fast for guillain-barre.
the family lost confidence in us.
it's like she got poisoned with a nerve agent.
tox screen was clear for pot. middle class heart transplant patient's going to huff glue?
this paralysis is ascending remember?
it's a non-penicillin antibiotic.
it's still on the table.
what did we discuss? what was the differential?
we already checked her.
i'm administering atropine.
got her.
turn the elevator back on.
atropine's wearing off.
that's just temporary.
we've got to get her upstairs and put her on norepiniphrine.
we've got to take care of her heart-- [he takes the bag and starts pumping to aid her breathing again]
house!
[gives up after a few seconds] this is my last atropine. buys us about 3 minutes.
her heart rate falls below 35; we're getting her to the icu. not going to let her die in this elevator.
ear canal's clean.
if it's not here we've only got... heart rate's 46.
we checked it. if we get her upstairs--
checked. [checks her heart rate] down to 38. we don't have a lot of time we've got to--
checked checked checked. we checked everywhere. it's not-- [alarms start beeping her heart rate has gone below 35] 35 we've got to get her to the icu.
we already kidnapped her you want to add murder!? we've looked over every inch of skin on her body house. it's over. [he releases the emergency stop button]
oh!
reflexes back to normal. heart's looking good too. i'll send in the nurse we'll get you transferred out of icu and you'll be discharged in the morning.
leukemia has a higher prevalence in both young and old.
this kid doesn't have kidney failure.
based on this file the kid just ate some bad food. was the old man--
and this case is cuddy's.
see anything?
house usually avoids cases. if he's actually stealing a case from cuddy there's gotta be a reason.
those ridges look a lot like purple papules.
give me the biopsy needle.
we couldn't confirm the source of the bleeding but we did biopsy some--
if you throw in esther's next symptom - brain makes me think heavy metal toxicity.
you have the file memorised?
you check esther for that?
you can't handle people disagreeing with you? she might have a different take on this.
mr or mrs alston would you mind giving me a hand? he's having trouble sitting still and it's impossible to get the detail we need. so i figure he might feel more comfortable hearing your voices. [he turns on the mic]
explains the low blood pressure.
house!
woah [grabs house's cane]
it's closed!
chase! [chase rushes back in]
we had to put him on a ventilator.
doesn't speed them up it slows them down.
sarcoidosis could be in his brain and lungs.
can't be kawasaki's. that doesn't affect the elderly.
we can confirm with bloodwork. we need an ana sed rate--
she went into respiratory distress. her heart and liver were already--
i don't know.
esther didn't have a mass in her heart.
or muscle.
brain damage.
huh yeah things just roll off you like water off a duck.
very unlikely in a 73-yr-old.
if it's genetic he's had it all his life why now?
or sarcoidosis.
chondrocytomas.
drop it house she's right.
it's moving too fast to be spreading. it has to be growing from something that's already--
going to need a little more than that.
if we have to repeat this test because you didn't cut us enough...
make it two. i don't want house biting off our heads because we weren't sure if it turned red or not.
sarcoma? muscle cells throughout his body? would explain the geography.
time course fits.
if we have enough tissue for two tests why not do both?
sarcoma is more likely to hit a 6 and 70 yr old.
you think sarcoma's less likely?
oh that's ok if the tumor cells haven't matured the kr67 protein wouldn't have turned off. what happens if we don't solve this?
i mean for the next 12 years.
mighty casey struck out.
the kid is too sick for that we're better off testing for sarcoma.
the tumor cells looked like muscle under the microscope.
erdheim-chester? that's not even on the list!
we can't waste our one test on the one disease we know it's not.
cd 68 positive [he smiles]
i wouldn't do that.
i wrote my own i didn't steal yours.
sedation isn't the same as sleep.
sleep is an active process. reboots the system restores the brain sedatives don't---
sleep is initially controlled by external light cues.
need a hand?
[amused sigh] we're never going to work together again?
[sighs] i wasn't asking for forgiveness i was asking if you needed help.
it doesn't matter. she's not listening.
normal stage one brain waves.
you.. fell asleep.
negative for optic nerve disease.
for like 10 seconds. maximum one minute. we also checked the ocular pressure. it's normal.
the brain is often unaware of stage one sleep. ct showed no tumors no clots no seizure disorders.
you... going somewhere with this?
[laughs] there's no monster in the closet we looked.
she felt i could deliver the news on my own.
[silently smirks]
house those few seconds of sleep are maybe the only reason she's still alive.
hannah?
[louder] hannah.
you fell asleep.
the sooner we find out what's wrong the sooner she can get a real night's rest.
[rolls his eyes sighs moves over pokes hannah's thumb with a needle]
you fell asleep again.
we have to do this.
[amused sigh] you know what happens when you're nice. nothing.
she fall asleep again?
i figured once we found another symptom it really didn't matter.
we packed her nose to control the bleed and started transfusing two units of whole blood.
so the butt bleed is just a nosebleed.
it's gotta be a massive sinus hemorrhage that was draining down her throat and out the back.
rat poison mixed with some sort of neurogenic toxin can cause bleeding and sleep disturbances.
it also could be some kind of coagulopathy.
we've been poking her foot not punching her face.
wouldn't keep her awake for ten days.
the poison ivy treatment was steroids.
so you think i was out of line?
i could have told her.
[watches her] chase?
looks like rem.
hannah. [pause] hannah can you hear me?
doesn't matter. liver function tests are through the sky. the liver's not compromised it's dead. she doesn't need a diagnosis she needs a new liver.
test for cirrhosis twelve hours. test for hepatitis eight she's not going to last another six.
my advice is that we narrow our focus to conditions that we can diagnose treat and cure in less than six hours. and there's nothing on that list.
it's rare but any of the hepatitis viruses can cause sleep disturbances and liver failure.
wilson's disease could explain the liver and neurological symptoms. it also causes bleeding disorders.
poison mushrooms can cause liver failure sleep disturbances and internal bleeding.
yeah but we don't have the time to test for any of these. before she can get the transplant we need to do about 80 procedures.
hey! cuddy cleared max for surgery. she's ok to go.
she's also cleared.
it looks negative for wilson's disease we'll know for sure in an hour.
you wanted us to do as much as we can before---
dopa decarboxylase was processed normally and the ceruloplasmin and copper levels were normal. so no wilson's disease.
how are you feeling?
she's still unconscious but her vitals look good. [sighs] we need to stop all the immuno-suppressant drugs which are protecting your new liver.
you're dead anyway if we don't figure out what caused all of this. by removing any outside influences it will help us see what's really going on with your body.
as your body begins to go into acute organ rejection your liver will begin to swell. and that'll put pressure on-- [pauses] yeah it'll hurt. but we can knock you out.
[silently nods his head.]
looks like the problem is some sort of infection. probably causing hypotension shock the liver.
it would if she developed meningitis.
maybe she lied. you talked to her friends? neighbors?
we better find out where that dog is now.
[settles back in his chair]
i like you. really. we have a good time working together. but ten years from now we're not going to be hanging out and having dinners. maybe we'll exchange christmas cards say hi give a hug if we're at the same convention. [sighs] we're not friends. we're colleagues. and i don't have anything to apologize for.
the abdominal series show no evidence of obstruction what'd you have to eat?
this been going on long?
he was actually err... really impressive.
and he told cameron god wants her to stop being pissed at me over the article.
he knows she's harboring vengeful thoughts.
liver feels fine transaminases are normal.
no fever.
or a brain tumor.
god would probably want you to take the stick out of your butt and get over this.
so you believe god might exist but you don't think about it? it's the most important issue-
what? i'm curious.
it's the right neighborhood.
leading cortical tubers identifiable. we can do this surgically.
tuberous sclerosis is a genetic disorder causes small benign tumors to grow in various parts of the body. in this case the brain.
they probably are but benign or not they're not in a good location. we need to remove them.
without the surgery it's just going to get worse; might even be fatal. with the surgery your son should be a perfectly normal 15-yr-old boy.
maybe the radiologist mis-charted which machine they used.
maybe it's a delayed effect from radiation. sometimes it could take a while.
here.
there's about a dozen appliances in every home that give off radiation.
if the machine's operating properly.
[he makes an exasperated noise.] you think house will just shrug and say that if one of us doesn't check the home? [chase nods and walks out.]
his sodium level still isn't normal.
his fever's 103 and rising. if we don't do anything he's going to be chatting with god face-to-face real soon.
[to the dad.] he's delirious and he's a minor. this is your decision not his.
buy all the land you want don't blow your brains out! you're watching your son kill himself! he's out of his mind with fever--
give it a rest! [to chase] you read what he wrote in the margin?
yeah he's not proud of me he's proud of jesus. everything i do right is god's work; everything i do wrong is my own damn fault. [chase puts the paper on the table as house walks in]
drugs?
good point. how about drugs?
according to baby shoes the cop was laughing before he got shot.
the guy who shot him.
you mean after the footrace?
if it was the cop car his partner would be sick.
the place is a cesspool. but i don't think i need to test for anything.
you know about the marijuana?
the cop's acting high because he is high. he's got-
it takes 48 hours to test for legionnaires'.
marijuana explains the high carboxy the cloudy lungs and the happiness.
heart rate's normal cohb levels are down. no fever. take some deep breaths. [joe does]
well i'm glad you're feeling better.
please don't talk.
i need you not to talk. [foreman listens to joe's breathing through a stethoscope.] no rales.
nothing medically relevant.
not this time. [he and chase give each other looks and foreman turns the board with the films over so that the films are not showing.]
make sure he sees what's involved. what we found was fairly advanced these cloudy areas here [points to nothing on the back of the machine but joe nods] and here. these parts of your lungs simply weren't functioning. [looks at joe who has not commented on nothing being there.]
you're blind.
what's dr. cameron wearing?
oh! almost except for the pants shirt and shoes. you're blind.
he can physically see. his brain just can't process it.
no way. anton's blindness indicates damage to both occipital lobes.
the clot would be at the top of the bilateral vertebral arteries.
police-issued kevlar vests don't have the ceramic plate insert that would shatter a bullet. they would just catch it. so the bullet shattered on its own meaning baby shoes was using .38 caliber hollow points which unfortunately are ferromagnetic.
an angio might show
keep this on throughout the procedure unless the pot's already made you sterile.
i grew up with cops like you. one part bully nine parts hypocrite.
just having some fun.
the man is a crooked cop.
you don't have to like someone to be their doctor. [goes onto the intercom] hey how you doing there buddy? just sit still and we'll have you back out there scaring the crap out of people in no time. [smiles slightly] happy?
i was just busting the guy's chops.
angio can't tell us that kind of information.
it gave us some information without killing him.
the bullets have a ferrous base!
ask him yourself. he's right here. [very sarcastic and waves his arms dramatically]
whoa! whoa! you think i'm sick?
the fact that i've grown bored by your insanity is proof of nothing.
is doing nothing an option? [looks at all the others] i'm just saying maybe the clot will break up on its own. the giddiness seems to have gone away.
[standing off to the side looking at his nails and speaking very sarcastically] house wanted to thin his blood sure did a good job!
boy is he screwed! we clot his bloodhe dies. we thin ithe dies! [very laughingly not serious at all keeps laughing] am i the only one to find this funny?
oh man!
[talking to house through the glass] i'm not sick!
someone laughs they're dying? that's absurd!
if i'm not sick all you're doing is locking me up with the source. i'll get sick prove you right.
no you can't! you blew up the machine!
wher where you going?
so i'm just a regular patient now?
ow! damn chase! [giggles] you suck at this!
i can do it myself and i'll throw that out. what'd the mri show? [chase doesn't answer] i can't be a part of the differential and i can't even know what the differential is? you'd have told any other patient what you found out.
what's he thinking?
you think the lesion could be an abscess?
was there inflammation in the lining of the ventricles?
staph infection. toxins lead to neurodegeneration which causes the lesion.
the cop had a fever. mine could be coming; i could've got it directly from him or a dirty dishtowel at his place. give us ommaya reservoirs deliver linezolid directly into our brains and we're cured. [smiles at chase]
kernig's sign negative. brudzinski's sign single positive. [looks over at joe who is moaning somewhat uncomfortably] patient joe lureia distal and proximal arm contractures. duration four seconds.
[gets up from the bed and looks at house like he's crazy (which not to negate he isn't)] most...commonly? you wanna treat me like any other patient do it. but the house i know never uses phrases like most commonly'
no. [pause] think that's a.good thing?
the infection could be limited to a brain abscess.
[gets up and walks over to house near the window] let me see the mri.
let me see it then.
mri was taken over an hour ago. that soft spot can now be an abscess.
[walks over to the window and puts the thermometer up to the window] 101.6.
[pointing the thermometer to house] put the ommaya reservoir in my skull and treat me for the staph.
triangle.
[looking at flashcards of shapes which chase is showing him] uhcircle.
[stalls]
[stutters] uhsquare.
is that house?
square again. why is he here?
the ommaya reservoir is inserted into the parietal lobe. my spatial recognition is the issue not my memory.
get out of my temporal lobe house.
i'm up.
not anymore.
[quiet] yeah.
you can't?
you've been blind a while. the fact that you're aware of it now it could be a sign of improvement.
i'm okay.
you die i die. it's not gonna happen.
they took a piece of my brain. whatever's wrong with us they'll find.
[tears up his voice gets shaky] not really.
[whisper] so does mine.
[nods his head and whispers] okay.
[watches cameron turn around] how can it be nothing? you cut out a piece of my brain.
[joe is in the background making very loud noises in which he is in excruciating pain] can you just up his morphine for god's sake?
what about toxins?
there was a cupboard above the stove. did you see it? i didn't check all the foodbut it could be listeriosis.
who did?
the answer's gotta be in that apartment. not going is too dangerous!
you're thankful. if house would've pointed at you instead of me you'd be the one in here.
it's your job to go back you're a doctor! you go where the disease is!
[yelling] i'm dying and you're sitting here measuring how fast i go?
[slaps the flashlight out of her hand] my vision is fine!
it's fine! i'll prove it! [bends over and picks up the needle and stabs her with it]
now we're both exposed. you got two choices: you can go tell house what just happened and get your own cot brought in here or you can go back to that apartment.you save me the cop and yourself.
does the blood show antibodies for coxsackievirus? [joe continues to get louder as he's going through more pain] guys could you please shut him up?
i'm gonna make you feel better.
his brain is telling him that his whole body is in pain. because of the location the painkillers do nothing.
what if he used cedar wood to hide the pot smell? aureobasidium fungus can grow there.
no. but maybe..
i was there. i should've found it.
give me a flush of ampho b and flucytosine. i'll start us both.
look at his eeg. beta bands have been increasing steadily since we put him under. guy's unconscious but still in pain.
[wincing in pain] one of which is pain. the fact that he's no longer screaming makes us feel better. not necessarily him.
chase! how's cameron?
has she said anything to you?
what i did did save my life.
get in here and help forget the suit! he's tachycardic. wide complex. looks like v-tach.
what?
so what is it?
we have any more leads?
this treatment isn't doing anything
come on mancome on joe
nothing! [he begins to do cpr on joe]
no. [continues]
am i the only one who finds this funny?
i wouldn't do that. / we're not friends. we're colleagues. [cut to foreman poking cameron with the contaminated needle.]
now we're both exposed.
you die i die. it's not gonna happen.
what's going on? when are they doing the autopsy?
read about it in med school. why would i <U+0096>
what's going on house?
that didn't feel right.
we need something to bag the sample.
no no i'm fine! house there's the sample test it! you've gotta test that sample!
right.
for what?
is cameron sick?
[feeling the pills] you're casting the net a little wider than toxic mold aren't you?
there's an oval shape that's either an l or a 7 i'm guessing an l <U+0096> levofloxacin can't rule out bacteria. 800 -- that's the dosage for acyclovir in case it's viral. square no more like a rhombus <U+0096> that's fluconazole for fungus there's about eight others here; you're treating me for everything! you've got no idea what i've got!
house is desperate. house is never desperate!
yeah we should start treating all patients this way. when they get sick they just take everything.
hello?
you don't think the treat him for everything approach is enough?
the kitchen.
i started with samples from the mold in his sink. [house lets steve walk around in the sink sniff the counter the fridge the toilet etc. we next see house and steve up in the cop's garden.]
that's it. then i left. what do we do now?
excellent plan. [foreman hangs up and is obviously in pain. he dials another number.] hey dad. it's eric. i'm not doing too good.
how are you doing?
is your sed rate elevated?
cameron. looks like you left a tourniquet on the bed.
treatment's working.
old age.
the cocktail's working. my vision's almost completely restored.
so lower the dosages. less stress on my pancreas still battle the infection.
i don't care! i can handle the pain of the pancreatitis.
fine. what do we do next?
dad? [and so it is <U+0096> foreman's father will from hereon be named rodney in the transcript.]
it's called a muscle contracture.
it is. it just means that the infection has moved to the primary motor cortex which controls the muscles. aren't you glad you sent me to med school?
no.
it <U+0096> the other guy he didn't seem to suffer too much he he just went into sleep.
no. did you?
it's not a big deal. i sure would like to see mom though.
[near tears] you tell her?
but she should know.
and you can?
it's easy for you isn't it? as long as you believe i'm going to a better place dying ain't so bad.
if i'm not afraid to die then what the hell should i be afraid of dad?
i did. not so sure anymore.
why're you here?
i'm sorry house used my dad to try to manipulate you. you've got integrity; you're not going to change your mind just because you're confronted by my father.
just like i'm not going to forgive you just because you're gonna come by here and ask me how i'm feeling.
of course you've had a choice!
and the punishment for violating those regulations?! is it death? hmm? because frankly i'm okay if you get a fine a suspension hell you can spend a couple of years in jail if it saves my life! [house comes by.]
couldn't agree more.
why would that happen?
the meds can't help me but a disease can? forget it just take the pain away and put me under!
i'm not consenting to you giving me <U+0096> [house drops in the vial which shatters on the floor.] what was that?
i can't breathe i'm dizzy and i can barely hear anything over the sounds of my lungs crackling.
oh. you figure that out from the symptoms or from the vial house tossed into my room?
i'm in pain.
and he's a delight!
great. [coughing] it's the good kind.
no worse.
so you're basing this theory on the tests being negative and your rat being healthy?
but the medicine you wanna give me will put an end to that.
and if it's not listeria all the gent will do is cure the legionnaire's disease and put whatever is killing me back into overdrive.
i think the first biopsy didn't give us the answer because you didn't go deep enough. i want you to do a white matter brain biopsy.
there can be minimal damage if it's done right. if the surgeons drill where i tell them to drill.
i'd rather be disabled than dead.
the biopsy will tell us for sure what's wrong.
could! not will.
the antibiotics will bring back the pain!
i need your help.
i wanna be put out.
no once i'm out i might not come back. i've never done a will.
i want you to be my medical proxy. all the things that piss me off about you in house's office: too emotional too caring too cautious they're all good things on this floor.
no.
so do you.
we expect family members to make decisions about their loved ones after a ten minute briefing that we're agonizing over even with years of medical experience.
i'm sorry allison. i shouldn't have stolen your article i shouldn't have exposed you. you are a friend i need to know that we're okay.
hey dad.
you don't know that.
you don't.
i love you too dad. [rodney starts to cry.] hey it's gonna be okay. can we do this now?
i don't feel anything.
no i mean i don't feel any pain.
i'm okay?
you did the biopsy? [cameron nods.] thank you.
cameron my dad and the manipulative bastard.
how're you doing dad?
what did i have?
wait you went back and she did the biopsy?
i just did.
what?
almost being the operative word [walking into the office].
thanks. i feel great.
happy to help. [cameron and house look suspicious at how chipper foreman is]
it's true. no more left-side right-side reversals still some short-term memory loss and spatial processing problems but trying not to be too hard on myself.
we have a case?
because seizure with mildly elevated calcium is diagnostically simple. it's either hyper parathyroid cancer or calcium-mediated neurotoxicity. [he's puzzling over how to get the paper filter into the coffee machine]
v for vasoconstriction.
excess calcium makes blood vessels in the brain clamp down best case scenario seizure; worst case stroke.
both mom and dad are negative for strep.
or not. either way i'm fine.
it's ok. i can always work in a research lab or teach.
why wouldn't i be?
i'm alive. changing jobs not making coffee... if that stuff bothers me now i don't deserve this second chance.
another seizure?
i have no idea.
and tox screen was negative.
myelogenous meningitis could also cover everything.
the only mood altering drug was vodka at the back of her drawer.
what bleeding?
but tox screen was negative for alcohol.
also fits conversion disorder. they're deep in debt he's working round the clock they got a new baby - i think the seizure was a physical response to psychological stress.
to put her in a phenocoma.
i assume you considered the father and ruled him out.
why should i argue? you'd just overrule me.
i have changed. it's not something you get over.
no matter how much your misery loves company it's not getting mine. i'll talk to the dad cameron can take the mom we'll figure out if mom was a drinker.
turns out she and her husband met in aa obviously she slipped. good call.
[pats house on the back] you're addicted to conflict.
you could have handled this patient without dragging chase in but the fact that he didn't want in killed you. [house looks into kara's room she's on her side facing away from the glass wall doing something] just like the fact that you can't get a rise out of me.
your son is stable but the lack of oxygen damaged his kidneys.
mr mason i was there. your wife tried to smother your son.
i don't think she faked it.
postpartum psychosis makes her want to drown her kid the internal conflict triggers a seizure.
i'll draw some blood test for--
ok. what do you want me to do?
we can't she's on haloperidol.
kara look directly into the light. [flashing lights] keep looking. [to cameron] thought you'd be gone for the day.
house sent you to baby-sit me didn't he?
cameron its fine.
look a few weeks ago you were upset that i didn't consider you a friend. now you're upset that i'm happy?
woah! [laughs] i didn't say that.
sorry.
kara just another few minutes.
and she's not seizing. so we're wrong and house is wrong.
she's not doing anything.
postpartum psychosis and conversion disorder.
ouch.
could be wernicke's.
test was negative.
she drinks. alcoholics get pellagra. they eat lousy diets so no niacin.
but you're right lack of niacin starves the brain neurons shut down causes seizures encephalopathic delirium and psychosis.
how do you feel?
i need to ask you some questions see how you're doing.
tell me your name?
when were you born?
do you hear any other voices besides mine?
you've been suffering from delusions. they were caused by a vitamin deficiency pellagra. made you believe things that were not real.
i'm afraid so.
you tried to suffocate your son.
your son's organs were damaged too severely. he passed away this morning.
pellagra doesn't cause bloody vomit. she's still sick and getting worse.
gastritis meds aren't helping which may confirm her story she only slipped once.
polystyrene shouldn't--
so we get her declared unstable appoint a medical proxy.
we have to change her mind you can't just walk away.
why are you doing this to me? i was happy!
don't give me a semantic argument. i was content with the way things were! that's what happiness is!
i can live with that.
delta wave on the ekg looks like <U+0096>
an arrhythmia a one time event.
house from what you say this guy will trust us <U+0096>
stop the current.
no normal waves.
charging clear! [they shock her.]
that's the one; she's hallucinating.
eeg's back to normal. no hallucinations.
if? the screaming the floundering it was a hallucination.
seizure? she saw her mother. mother's dead. ergo hallucination. [house leaves.]
you can't test for autoimmune in a pet scan <U+0096>
diagnostic test. cerebral cortex responding normally she's not hallucinating.
house the test is over. dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is fine.
she's hallucinating.
we don't even know what autoimmune disease she has. could be lambert-eaton could be [something].
liver failure. there'd be no proteins to clot the blood so it would clot the blood and mess up her intestines.
stop the biopsy.
it's house. he says stop.
please tell me you didn't have us stop the biopsy to check out some tunes!
my god! grandpa was an angry drunk if only we'd known!
yeah drugs and alcohol don't do that.
unless you can tell me miles davis couldn't play stoned <U+0096>
not sure. can we hear the music again?
there's the iron and lots of it.
whatever's in the lungs likes iron bound with it started poking holes.
and when we started massive antibiotics prior to the radiation
fungus likes iron.
why would he lie about that?
zygomycosis. only occurs at the highest levels of mold.
she's going to be fine.
she lied to you. she's your kid <U+0096> get used to it.
and why do we care?
you're an ass.
this is either a toxin infection or an allergic reaction. i assume you gave him epi so that rules out allergies. put him on antibiotics in case it's an infection and if it's a toxin we'll keep him here overnight let the swelling go down send him home. i'm going to the movies. [he starts to leave but before he can a man [now called jack] enters.]
whoa get the needle out of there. [the monitors beep.]
almost for sure it's some sort of infection. we've got him on broad-spectrum antibiotics but it's not even slowing the thing down. unless we find out what type of infection we can't treat and we can't figure out what type because we can't do an lp.
we would have done an lp two days ago if we could have but that much pressure something's bound to go <U+0096>
pressure is 120 ml h20 with small visible excursions related to respiration and pulse.
no that's weird.
wow. i would have bet money something would go wrong. let's rotate him back. [they rotate him and notice his left eye is red.] he's bleeding into his ocular orbit.
so it's not spreading it's got a common source.
the brain except the ct was clean.
you're referring to the blood-brain barrier.
and levofloxacin in case it's an infection slipped by the first antibiotic.
test was negative.
in the brain lining it is. blood dyscrasia means cancer.
showed no cancer no reason why he's got a fever of 103 and no reason why his tongue won't fit in his mouth.
even more likely he is human his anatomy is where it's supposed to be but he has testicular cancer.
we tested the lymph system in his chest.
surgeon was trying to put everything back where it was he wasn't look [the sounds tunes out]
efp and beta hgg say no testicular cancer.
most likely scenario is some kind of bacterial prostatitis. [house looks up the stairs walks up them.]
he doesn't clearly have anything.
no structural abnormalities.
it means you're wrong.
we don't have any we're just guessing and testing.
what's more basic than the test results?
we assume he's got a bleeding problem.
but you're always insane and you're always right.
house you're losing it.
hey hey! this is a nightmare you're gonna wake up. it's real you're killing a man!
he was shot!
