he is cute. be careful.
i met mark at a fundraiser that happened to be held at a <U+0096>
you were the worst two dollars i ever spent. [to cuddy] we'll catch up later.
nothing to handle. he obviously wants to talk to you alone. [she leaves.]
so do you.
yeah. it was easy once i convinced the clerk to take it to judge markem she's a sucker for eighth amendment arguments.
you said you cleared with her <U+0096>
were you trying to get me fired? if you didn't want me working here why didn't you just say so?
i'm a lawyer. you're a jerk. there's gonna to be some overlap.
cuddy just reamed me.
for trusting you! she figured when she hired me she'd at least have someone you couldn't walk all over.
i need to know can i trust you?
great. now i know. now we can work together.
morning! [house winces at the sound.] your head hurt?
you always were a light weight.
can't it be enough that i want to cause you pain? the patient's okay now you're going to send him back?
you used to.
i didn't have any choice.
yeah pretty much on that same level.
you're not making friends right now.
i know.
i had to do what i thought was right.
you don't need to see him.
talking that's how lawsuits are lost. i know you lisa you go in you offer to pay his medical bills his wages you'll say something stupid like i'm sorry<U+0097>
i think you're not a lawyer. don't go in there. [puts a hand on cuddy's shoulder]. trust me house's people can handle this.
it's actually the type of thing he'd do.
now that's not the type of thing he would do.
you care about this kid. you judgment should be worth more than his.
now that sounds like him.
house is having lunch with his juniors now?
then where do you think they're going?
then why don't you think they're going to lunch?
he had that smug look on his face when he's not pleased about something and he's got to tell somebody and the only somebody he knows is you.
what? why?
why is he so curious about cuddy?
why are you so curious about me being<U+0097>
i'm just curious. nothing wrong with that.
not according to the log.
is it a commercial?
how's cuddy doing?
you know her. she has trouble with these situations feels personally responsible.
[sarcastic] wow doesn't she sound messed up.
no you lie awake tormented by<U+0097>
she cares.
lisa cares. it's why she drives you nuts. cause it's not just a puzzle to her. the patients are actually real their feeling actually relevant. and i'm telling her she can't even talk to him.
i'm just saying take it easy on her. you owe her that.
so glad we talked.
i've heard enough.
shut up. if i were to somehow find out that you two are in disagreement over the proper medical course of action it could make it awkward for my client in court. my client being the two of you. so guys i'm a little busy here. why don't we pick this conversation up in half an hour. k?
is this true?
this is a big decision.
we should convene in a meeting of the ethics committee.
greg you have a history of <U+0096>
lisa? are you sure you're okay with this?
you okay?
wondering if you made the right call?
i wanted to be a lawyer from the time i was six until my second week of law school. sorry your story.
sad story.
you are his doctor.
you say you're not as good a doctor as house is?
he should have.
if you figured it out later he'd be dead.
we need to talk.
you have to renew your credentials!
three weeks. the paperwork takes forever. your application your malpractice insurance criminal records check - you know that's going to take some explaining
yeah! otherwise i'd be on you like red on rice
you're also behind on your dictations
you can't have your sole female employee doing your clerical work which you'd know if you'd attended the required sexual harassment seminars. then i'm going to pause so you can make a crack about harassment.
hi james greg. gotten to that paperwork?
pardon me?
my goodness it's like watching oscar wilde and noel coward in the third grade. excuse us [wheels mark away to another table but not before house and mark give each other fake smiles]
you went to his group.
[hits house across the arm again] that was 5 years ago.
fine you don't want help; does that mean nobody should get it?
not about him you still want to jump me so you don't care who's married--
i'm trying to protect you. cuddy and i may be the only people stopping you from jumping off a cliff just to prove that you--
oh i am angry!
shut up!
this is unbelievably difficult for mark which you should know which you should be able to summon up some level of empathy for.
i have a good thing with mark we are handling this the best way we know how.
no nothing! except that you can't or won't just let it go! let it go. [walks back out slamming the door]
on the off-chance that one of you were stupid enough to call from your own office i'm pulling your phone records including your cell phones.
until we figure out who's behind this i'm sitting in with you guys. you have the ethics of a four-year-old; i'm going to treat you like one.
somebody once told me that everybody lies. since you're the only people who know he has cancer--
you've come to search my office; you should wait ten minutes i'll be out of your hair. here start with my purse (throws it across to house) just save me some mints. what do you want to know? my sex life with mark? my guilt over crippling your damn leg? or are you just here to gloat because you weren't the leak?
i hate you. and i love you. and i love mark.
no.
we deal with each other.
it'll get better it'll get easier.
i don't know it's what my therapist tells me.
you have to treat him.
you don't treat him he charges you with assault.
i forgot wednesday was hooker day. this could've waited!
mark's at physio i'm stuck waiting for the exterminator. [house gives a questioning look.] i saw a rat last night.
i barely slept.
what're you doing?
you hate washing dishes.
rather take care of that myself. [walks up to the sink to help house.]
trenton pests is sending a guy.
we're working.
take ten minutes cure the guy and stop whining. [walks after mark.]
it ran into that heating vent right there.
he's not angry just doesn't like you. nothing unique there.
he's fine with me.
of course he's angry; he's looking at months of painful physio.
there's no way he said that.
past tense?
might be the hospital. [she walks out.]
[rushes in to find house sitting in the middle of her attic.] you broke into my house?
he has physio.
what happened with all the cheese?
death cures both those things.
oh! [she turns away in disgust.]
then what? chemo?
hello. oh hi honey. i'm sorry i missed you yeah i came home. alright i'll see you in a few minutes okay bye hon.
so how long do we stay here?
he's not going to come out with us right here.
he's not blind.
he ate around the pill? smart!
he's alright for a rat.
okay i blow my smoke into the vents so mark doesn't know.
bluffing!
why didn't you say anything?
you could have asked me how i was!
sorry i caused you so much pain.
heard you hit another patient.
cuddy didn't mention that. let me see. [she comes around the desk to look at his jaw.]
my concern is purely legal. [pats the skin where he got punched.] looks okay does it hurt?
you need some ice. [she goes to fetch some from the little fridge in the corner.]
he would have said something. [she applies some ice wrapped in a cloth to the purpling area where he got punched.]
we're fine.
stop squirming.
i'm not lying.
i am. [stops trying to put the ice on the bruise.]
you know when i have sex? you can smell that on me too? the only people who know about what's going on between me and mark are me and mark.
and i know you. you're confident arrogant but you're never certain unless there's a reason to be certain. one other person knew i told you i was seeing dr harper. you can easily get into her office you read my file. [house doesn't deny it.] you read my file? [she now sounds like she's about to break into tears.] the dishes the concern the oh acting like a human being? you have this whole time you've been manipulating me?
[nods.] i don't anymore. get out.
hey.
the mcginley case. that's not for two weeks.
can you ask someone else?
let me work with chase. house should have separate counsel.
there is nothing approaching love in what i feel about him right now.
[sighs.] we had a fight. it's awkward. why not use another lawyer?
[walking into the office carrying a handful of papers.] where's chase?
[throws the pieces of paper on to the table in front of house.] this one says you're okay with moving the disciplinary hearing to tomorrow. this one says i've advised you of your legal rights.
nope. [angrily tosses her pen on to the table wilson winces.]
you shouldn't sign it. postponing is almost always the smart thing to do. tempers cool memories fade.
yeah but
have you ever done a peer review before?
good. here's a misnomer - these are your bosses. this will cost you some money some privileges or it could cost you your career.
there's an objective reality to what happened and that committee is never going to know it. all they're going to know is what they picture happened which depends a little on what you tell them and a whole lot on how you tell them. may 11th.
what's her name?
do you know it? [chase makes a sign saying of course he does.] then use it.
ok patient comes from a family of jerks i get it. can you stick to the medicine?
meaning?
meaning?
don't care about the vicodin.
i thought she was foreman's patient why did you do the exam?
does your dad have anything to do with this story?
okay i get it the two of you bonded which is why you probably haven't been sued. patients never sue doctors they like. but keep it brief ok? the panel doesn't like to think they're being manipulated when they're being manipulated.
confirming behcet's?
you didn't make an appointment?
and you were just chatting on the phone to someone and she just happened to run into you.
no appointment? no real examination?
so lower standard of care you really couldn't be expected to notice there was anything else wrong.
[pause.] as your lawyer i can't stop you from lying i can't even be in the room but i would be remiss if i didn't prep you to lie better. [takes up a piece of paper and hands it over to chase.] you wrote her a prescription which means there was an examination. what really happened?
you didn't ask her anything about the stomach pain?
as little mistakes go that was a biggie.
everything stems from that one interaction; they're going to slam you on it. were you distracted? your problem? overworked that's their problem. forgetful yours lazy--
then why did you call her an hour after she left the clinic? nurse previn said you asked her to have kayla come back in.
embarrassing question only important when patient saves it for last so you knew she was about to ask the most important question and you left.
what changed?
bad answer.
worse answer. what was her doorknob question?
then the infection lowers her blood pressure
if i skip my coffee i get cranky. do you want anything?
why did chase screw up?
it might help him.
how far are you concerned?
you're colleagues. you've worked together for over a year. and everyone says you slept together.
the correct answer is we're not involved and i'm not biased.
yeah. why did chase screw up?
well he always gets positive patient reviews.
it's a nice story.
i won't be encouraging them to call you.
i need to talk to you.
it's confidential.
two questions. why did chase screw up and how bad was it?
he said he did.
they're gonna wanna know what you think a reasonable doctor would have done in chase's position.
god you two are a couple of geniuses. deny everything; completely fool the lawyer who's trying to help you. too bad the review committee members are actually doctors.
that's how you tell this guy he's dying?
such a hero; always righting wrongs. who cares who you have to manipulate.
it's a point of principle.
there's nothing for us to talk about.
if chase screwed up--
if chase screwed up so badly why didn't you fire him?
[grabbing on to house's arm to stop him from walking away.] what are you hiding?
diarrhea blood in the stool. two simple questions you could have asked her six months ago and averted this whole thing. you didn't ask either why?
good doctors don't make mistakes--
fyi self-pity generally is not a good strategy in these hearings. what happened after the operation?
and cuddy listed her? with all the other problems?
when you're testifying skip the details on how house convinced cuddy. i don't think the people who got bumped down the transplant list need to know why.
sam bribed someone to rush his test?
someone's going to get the blame for what happened so the more we spread it around... might as well--- you said no surgeon would do a live donor transplant on such short notice.
and this was right before you ran the marathon i suppose?
what'd you do to him?
you'll tell me.
anything you say is attorney-client. so you can get advice about the bad bad thing you did knowing i'll be tortured because i can't tell a soul.
you bribed him and then you blackmailed him?!
leave the blackmail out of the story you tell the committee.
and then there was that incident in the parking lot.
you blackmailed ayersman before he performed the surgery and then you ratted him out anyway?!
you just can't control yourself can you? no matter how stupid how self-destructive--
yeah i was thrilled about that.
no i wouldn't!
july 24th be precise. you did the exam?
honestly? so you've been lying up until now?
another phrase to avoid in front of the committee.
house was right? [she sounds a little too impressed at that.]
how could house have known?
and you couldn't re-list her because of the cancer.
this is good; the brother lying about his hep. it's an intervening act the proximate cause of her cancer and not your mistake.
maybe. can't prove it. [stacy's beeper goes off.] you need to come with me.
punitives?! that means they're alleging gross negligence.
larry wusekus. he's not crazy.
you have been hiding things and lying to me all day!
[sighs.] well what haven't you told us?
of course not; there was no illegal transplant. there's no causation.
or you're lying to us. last thursday he saw you for post-op care. if you hate your doctor you find another doctor before you find a lawyer. this guy didn't sue cameron or foreman. he didn't even sue house. something personal here something you don't want us to know before your hearing. the guy didn't hate you before that meeting he hated you after.
is chase telling the committee about his dad?
i wouldn't do that.
you're my client too.
it's not all negative.
maybe you were right... maybe that is the problem.
[she shakes her head.] i don't know.
don't say anything; don't attempt to defend your billing practices your billing practices are indefensible.
if i thought you were capable of listening i'd shut up.
[stands up to shake his hand.] good afternoon.
doctor house has a rather specialized practice.
i think doctor house understands--
[hits house.] put the money away!
my client's an idiot. [house turns to look at her in surprise.] but is he wrong about the pills?
you're retiring in three weeks. you've been doing this job nearly twenty years aren't you tired of administering policy you disagree with?
what can they do to you? and doctor house is sorry [pointed look to house.] about his earlier outburst.
i do what's necessary for my client. [she checks her watch.] wow! new personal record!
you booked us dinner reservations?
don't you have a plane to catch?
your flight leaves at 7.
and mine doesn't leave until 9pm. it looks like you'll be dining alone.
i didn't think we'd be finished this soon.
i left it at the jeweler's to be cleaned.
[exasperated.] oh i told you i left it--
you didn't bring a book to read or something?
leave it alone greg.
i didn't realize until i got to the airport.
why does this matter to you?
then you're going to suffer. [she goes back to reading her newspaper.]
we had a fight. [she turns around and snaps at him.] we had a fight and i was angry and not thinking straight and i walked out without my make-up and without my cross! i stopped at the drug store to buy make-up but i couldn't buy a cross because they don't have an aisle for personal talismans!!!
it was about nothing.
i don't mind fighting over little things! i don't even mind fighting over big things! that i could understand. but we fight over nothing! you know a mailbox with a sign that says last pick-up 5pm does that mean last pick-up to go to the post office or last pick-up to leave the post office and be sent out of town?
i tried to get him to drop the subject but he wouldn't. i told him he was right he thought i was being condescending.
he's pushing me out of his life.
did i misinterpret with you? at least this time i recognize it. that's the benefit of convincing the only two men you've ever loved they're better off without you.
[she laughs softly then sighs.] i'm going to go wash my face so i look like a grown-up again.
hello? [she hands the phone to house.] it's for you.
where's your knapsack?
oh that's right. i forgot it was hard for you to carry and walk. i booked a room at the airport hotel when i saw how bad the weather was; it was the last one available. your leg can't handle a night on a cot.
i'm ready.
the hotel's upstairs.
mark knows when things are bad i always like to have an escape route planned.
that i'm feeling vulnerable and i don't want to be around you because it might lead to something.
might also lead to something.
our relationship is like an addiction. it's... like...
no it's like... vindaloo curry.
really really hot indian curry they make with red chili peppers.
you're abrasive and annoying and come on way too strong like... vindaloo curry. and when you're crazy about curry that's fine but no matter how much you love curry you have too much of it it takes the roof of your mouth off. and then you never want to see curry for a really really long time but you wake up one day and you think... god i really miss curry.
you're a jerk.
[grabs his face in her hands.] for once in your life will you shut up? [she pulls him down and they lock lips again. he holds her close to him and she strokes his jaw as they go for it.]
sure.
that's why i chose it.
your flight's been boarding for 20 minutes!
greg they can't leave without you you checked your knapsack.
is your patient going to be alright?
physically?
yeah that's usually the way it works.
but he couldn't could he? [she gets the stub of her ticket back from the person at the desk and is about to walk through when she turns around to see house again.] you know what woody allen said about relationships? irrational and crazy but we go through it all because--
why are you so worked up over this?
not to you. [wilson's jaw drops.] this is none of your business.
oh right. he cried himself to sleep every night. that so sounds like him.
you're being dramatic.
it was one kiss.
it was one kiss greg.
i'm moving back to short hills i think it's time.
it's never meant to be permanent. and now that mark's getting better
he needs to get back to work. [turns away.]
i'm not running away. i'm going home.
i love mark.
right now?
am i going to tell him? still working on that phrasing. how about; 'know all that stuff you were worried about when we first came here honey? you were right.'
everything's easy when you don't care if you hurt anyone.
if i never tell him it'll never hurt. [house's brow furrows.] i want not to love mark. i want to hate you. i want all of this to be simple but it's not.
i need some advice.
do you think he's capable of having a real relationship?
nothing.
maybe something.
technically most of the something happened after baltimore.
i don't know what to do.
no. i don't know. i can't.
it wasn't all bad with greg. i was with him for a reason.
i could swear i remember him being fun. [cuddy smiles apologetically but says nothing.]
hey!
this isn't funny greg.
who asked you to?
oh now you're introspective? weren't so analytical the other night. [beta comment: my mom has this saying about a cow and free milk.
shut up about mark. what the hell's wrong with you?
what?
oh. oh. it doesn't have to be.
