yes.
well that's the correct answer isn't it?
no i'm just trying to give you the answers you need to cover your asses fill out your forms and let me out of here.
is that how our system works? release the best actors? i shudder to think what that world would be like.
i knew that her daughter was at grandma's like every friday and i saw everyone else move into the living room.
which i would've noticed since i was driving right towards them. [he just can't stop himself from being a smart ass.]
yes.
[quietly] yeah.
yeah why would i wanna make sure that my homicidal cellmate is taking the right anti-psychotics?
he's on 80 mg of propranolol. that's 40.
i'm starting to think mendelson that you just really like the taste of my spit.
you really got a thing for swastikas mendelson. like an ironic thing?
so's house. i'm jewish. [mendelson looks at him.] nah i'm a black gay gypsy. [he walks away. mendelson is not amused.]
queen to king's bishop seven.
you know what's weirder? it's how the clinic is a large room and you somehow confused me with it. although to be fair i am large.
hi rollo. i realize this is probably a rhetorical question <U+0097> why are you stealing my stuff?
you heard about my parole but not about my violent reactions when people steal my tuna. put it back.
really? you're stepping to a guy who outweighs you by 50 pounds and who's carrying a cane which while prison-approved would still cause some issues if inserted into your colon.
[voice from the hall] yep.
if you like tuna you're a little late.
it's not gonorrhea.
not out loud but you're figuring that joint pain plus fever plus a low lifestyle equals a ceftriaxone prescription.
not going back. and that look of shock is elitist and offensive. doctors can be degenerates. this is america. [back to the case] there's subtle eyebrow loss. it's lupus.
which would be dispositive if he was just a giant head.
usually? well i guess that's good enough for prison work. [she gapes at him as he turns to leave. sykes is amused. then house turns back a little worried.] you don't write people up for mouthing off do you?
you think one of santa's reindeer was called stomper?
i'm not gonna listen to a guy who can't name the reindeer.
hey stomper.
i brought it to your cell.
i was just getting to that part. rollo followed me in and took it.
way. i don't wanna start any rumors but<U+0097>
well he was all you know i can take stomper. and i was all how come? and he was all 'cause of how diaz kicked his ass last month. in fact he actually called you stompee with an ee. i think his gist was
[removes his earphones] is that like a synonym for clever? by the time they get out of solitary i'll be teaching physics at the university of fiji.
this another pet? 'cause it's gonna end badly. again. remember we talked about this? at least i talked and you stared at me eerily. [asofa stares eerily.] i think it was eerily. eerily felt like the best-case scenario.
hey. take off your shirt so i can find the rash.
well if you can think of a better way to prove that she's an idiot i'm all ears. now let's get this over with.
well that's what happens when you date a 12-year-old.
belief implies a level of giving a crap that i am never gonna achieve. pull down your pants.
hey. it's not that i was trying to prove that you're an idiot or anything but lupus boy and i were at the beach this morning and i noticed a rash on his left thigh.
something very obvious and very boring.
oh you're good just like lupus boy will be when you start him on prednisone. name should've been a giveaway. i'll send him up.
because you're a smart old-money trust-fund girl who took this job because your liberal ideology makes you wanna make a difference but you're already getting bored and this is interesting.
your shoes <U+0097> different expensive pair every day but never leather which means you're both rich and liberal. antique locket <U+0097> it's unpolished gold. not some hipster thing. it's a family heirloom which means old money. osler scarf <U+0097> only on fridays which means you did your residency at hopkins which means you're smarter than our interactions would so far indicate. and your eyes <U+0097> the only time you haven't looked bored in the three months since you've been here is when we've been discussing this diagnosis. so yeah you'll treat him for lupus.
i didn't want a big emotional scene.
how many do you want?
come on mendelson. i should be on six a day. i get four and i give you two. [silence] fine. get one in my cell after lights-out. plus wednesday thursday friday that's 11 in all.
they give out four a day max.
what if i just go into protective custody spend the next three days in the hole?
porter.
i was thinking of something more vicodin-y. at least 16 and i need them friday at noon.
i am peep-less.
no. i mean you ever see me chatting on the phone taking visitors?
just get 'em to me as soon as you can.
what happened?
[quietly] who hit you?
it's not lupus.
does it feel good?
no i'm just going through a bit of withdrawal. i'm trying to survive on one a day for the next few days.
it's not lupus. he broke his arm.
he was in a jostle.
that's why he'd lie to the guards. he's got no reason to lie to me.
see? there are those eyes again. [he moves toward the desk and adams grabs nick's folder and holds it away from house.] how about a viral syndrome? or mrsa? no that wouldn't chew up the bone that fast. but reaction to meds could. [holds out his hand for the chart] may i?
how long can i assume that he's been smoking? based on his yellow fingers.
i'm out of here on friday.
well how about if he throws a clot and strokes out you can use the x-ray to do the autopsy. start him on blood thinners.
[leaving] to the proof store.
[lifts his head] about me not caring? i thought so. [he goes back to listening tapping on nick's chest with a couple of fingers.]
listen i'm trying to listen to your lungs not your self-pity. [he stops and gets up grabbing his cane.] cancer can wait. [joining frankie who was walking past] hey heading out to the yard?
you mind trying to find me a cricket?
i'll dress 'em the same like in vertigo.
[thoughtfully] good point. [he sees porter and turns to follow him.] hey. how's it coming?
[sitting on the next gurney] now try an inch to the left. hear the difference?
it's called an acoustical shadow. it means he's got a tumor.
start the blood thinners.
[simultaneously] yeah
[incredulous] which means your initial diagnosis could still be right?
that's that's a good idea.
before i went to med school i thought about getting a ph.d. in physics. you ever heard of dark matter? the way galaxies rotate the motion of the universe it means there's six times more stuff than we can detect. it's been theorized but no one's ever proved it exists.
it's the greatest mystery there is <U+0097> the theory of everything.
well me and humanity we got together too young.
well if that gift is related to what brought me here you'll understand if i wanna check the returns policy.
jiminy didn't chirp much last night. if it's a disease then he's six inches under. [he taps some bicarb into the bottle.] but this could also be pesticide poisoning [he shakes the bottle well] which bicarbonate of soda has been used to treat. [he adds some to a postcard which he picks up and blocking the view with his body slips under an upturned half bottle with the new cricket in it. he steps to the side so asofa can see the cured cricket.] see? just so much and no more.
mm [silence] this is where you say thank you. [nothing] or i say thank you for not killing me. [long pause] thank you.
i'm fine.
it's not gonna help.
you trust me?
you're really not good at reading people are you? or buildings.
[reaching for the file] not that much to the first and not at all to the second. but if it'll get me the file
this guy's the only one with symptoms. it's either gotta be his cell or his work station.
can you get me an escort to gather samples?
you need to get cotton swabs<U+0097>
you're a prisoner on tier time. by definition you have nothing to do.
you're moving slower. you're getting weaker. this thing's attacking your bones your joints your blood.
[frustrated and annoyed] she's not your girl you idiot. she was the girlfriend of a loser drug dealer. think she's got the self-control to wait around for three years? you think she should? there's a reason we're locked away from nice normal people. [relenting nicer] your life outside is over. your friends your girl everyone you worked with they've moved on.
where's sykes?
great. i'm gonna go through the laundry. give me some swabs.
what? he yelled at you for letting me see the file? you'll get over it. a few years of therapy<U+0097>
[enters and closes the door behind him] okay so i drove a car into a wall instead of stealing some pills. you obviously don't care what i did. you care that i lied to you. you feel jilted.
i had a bad lawyer.
uhhh!
i-i-i can't get all 20 but once i get out<U+0097>
i need your help. you have any matches?
what about a stick of gum?
i'm gonna need that too.
why do i need the pen that you always carry around and never write with? [frankie hands it over.] this is plan b. [he clicks the pen revealing a blade.]
what is it?
you're confusing me with the clinic again.
as soon as you leave i am.
i'm just done. no you no medicine no fixing people. done. now get out.
[looks at nick for the first time] your lips are swelling. open your mouth. did you just eat something?
you allergic to anything? [nick collapses. house lowers him to the floor while yelling for help.] guard! you're going into anaphylactic shock. guard! dammit. i gotta make a hole so you can breathe.
he's having an allergic reaction. he can't breathe.
alvarez look at what i'm doing! it's a tracheotomy. come on man. you know i'm a doctor.
i have no idea.
saving us both from contraband charges. it was great knowing you. [he knocks on his cell door. a guard arrives. house talks to him through the locked door.] i need to be taken into protective custody.
wow. [the guard accompanying him waits impatiently.] that was great. i think i really dodged a bullet there.
[walking away toward his cell] uh it's nothing personal. we'll reschedule. rain check i promise.
it wasn't the food. it was the heat. it's mastocytosis. it can be set off by hot liquids like the coffee he just drank.
no no! it's almost impossible to confirm masto with blood work. just give him five aspirin. [adams looks very puzzled.]
you do understand the meaning of the word confirm.
well what do you have to lose by giving him the aspirin?
it's his risk to take. if he has another attack and there isn't a doctor in the next cell he could die! so for one second will you stop covering your ass and do the test?
[quietly choosing his words carefully] you're a moron and a coward. i'll do it myself.
i need 20. [she pulls a bottle of pills out of her pocket and gives him some.] and let me back into the clinic when sykes is gone.
you can't if you're not willing to do<U+0097>
[looks around worried; nods] you're absolutely right.
[pleasantly] thanks for getting me to the clinic.
[off-screen] c.o.! we have a little problem here!
alvarez!
where's the aspirin?
yeah it's always a direct order. eight months. haven't heard an indirect order in here.
[putting some aspirin in a folded sheet of paper and smashing them] sorry. distracted. you were saying?
no.
'cause i have a gift. [to nick] once you drink this you should get an attack almost immediately. that is if i'm right.
if i'm wrong no it wasn't.
just drink it! drink it!
come on just a little more time.
must be some mistake. i specifically requested my wakeup startle three hours from now.
i've had dreams about this. i'm going to assume this is another one.
i can refuse to see any visitor i want. tell the dean that i don't want to see her.
(rolling back to look up at the guard) he?
what's the hiring policy over there? all ass based?
not unless that file has a file in it.
i had eight months added to my sentence two months ago. the math is pretty basic.
no thanks. you think it's a good idea for me to go right back to my old life? for either of us?
i did pay for the room for the whole week but
nice painting. blues and greens. calming but with a hint of nurturing. totally offsets the stench of suffering and death. where's my patient? we need to not talk.
great. (holding out the file) take this.
i completely understand and almost respect your desire to appear to be dean of medicine given that your title is dean of medicine. on the other hand seriously?
yes massa.
when did cuddy leave?
don't need the details.
where's my stuff?
what about my team?
no it doesn't.
i'm not interested in another department's sloppy seconds.
3:00 a.m. if foreman had called you in from home you wouldn't have
well if that were true you'd be working right now and unavailable to help. which means that you're hanging out in the hospital pretending to work. which means you're not just a reject you're a cowardly reject who was trying to hide her rejectedness from someone.
then go back to neurology.
(loudly) prison! sorry i thought i heard everyone else think that. i was in prison you see. it was a long time ago but still you're curious. never was raped not raped-raped. well raped-raped but not raped-raped-raped. well now that we've got that completely behind us.
is there cake? any alveolar exudate?
well it's not ards. it's the autumn. its tick borne disease season. ehrlichiosis causing bronchialitis. you'll appreciate that i left the idiots subtextual.
cocaine.
dead men don't pee. tox screen tests for metabolites in the urine. coke never got past the lungs. also explains the motorcycle crash. idiots.
great idea. unless you're wrong. and by you i mean me. then this treatment will burn holes in the lungs. i'd call you idiots again but at this point i'm starting to doubt whether you understand what i mean by the word. (to park) kato get black beauty and meet me out front. (looking directly at wilson) we're gonna find the dead kid's stash.
since an 18-year-old with organ donor on his license is not a cancer patient i'm figuring the recipient is a lifetime member of the wilson cares too much club.
you're the reason i'm out of the big house. doesn't quite make up for never visiting<U+0097>
it amounts to the same thing. you wanted me back.
strong emotional reaction. i guess that's what a lifetime membership gets you. how's your wrist?
i was wrong. i went to prison. i paid the price. (wilson's pager beeps)
i said i was wrong. i didn't say i changed. i haven't. neither have you<U+0097>
bright side <U+0097> they're probably up weeping. hey we both assaulted our bosses. it's like we're twins.
okay i'll go first. my boss dumped me. and yours what? called you his china doll? joked about what a crappy deal you got for manhattan? assumed you have a huge penis? i have no idea what flavor you are so i thought i'd just cover the spread.
behind what? oh yeah your <U+0097> grabbed your tushy. so now you're pretending to be on call so that your overly protective boyfriend won't find out that you got groped.
your parents know your call schedule?
right. no issues there.
druggies are not known for their honesty. trust me on this one.
sorry. but we're on a clock.
(looking up at mr. weathers) nope. his son is dead. the only way that has any meaning is if we fix the lungs and transplant them. it doesn't matter how much we piss him off as long as we find something. so go back there piss him off and find something.
your son isn't wearing glasses in any of these pictures.
because he was having headaches?
answer the question before answering the door.
you're right. he was not doing cocaine. he had a brain tumor.
don't bother. it's for me. (propping his foot on the dresser and pulling up his pant leg to reveal the monitor) turns out they monitor these monitors.
i thought the bracelet was decorative. my aunt had one just like it. wait a minute.
dead kid's house was on the way to my apartment. (he picks up his cane and stands) assuming i got lost twice.
i knew you were very busy being vaguely important.
yeah it's the word might that bumps me but i'll run it by you next time. (he turns to leave)
disciplinary hearing should be fun and the subsequent lingering black mark on your record.
(feeling the body's upper right arm) there's a mass in the arm. analyzing part of this tumor is gonna be quicker than a scan.
so where's the next job? you worry about what people think of you and parental secrets. the only way that you don't worry about this hearing is if you don't think there's gonna be one. the only way that happens is you leave princeton plainsboro.
my money's on rhabdomyosarcoma. (giving the jar to park) chicago has a great program and you're a dumbass.
running away from home is a time-honored tradition but you're not doing it to flee your parents. you're doing it to protect them. (he picks up his cane) that's an insult to everything teen prostitutes have worked for. time to grow up and come clean.
this is so our song.
not worried. my team is confirming the diagnosis as we speak.
see? i smell empathy.
you should remember all the good times. like when i gave you that necklace that you just dumped n the ocean. what were you thinking?
come in.
tell that to the tumor that i found in his arm.
just 'cause it wasn't a tumor doesn't mean it didn't mess with the lungs. they're reacting to something in the plasma.
still. (picking up his cane and heading out the door) it's not as bad as a thousand people going down in a gigantic boat right? my heart will go on. (he leaves wilson's office)
25 donors contributed to the plasma that the lung donor got. my team cannot track down and interview them all in six hours.
you asked me to ask you. was that just so you'd enjoy saying no?
actually you have to.
fine then give me a team i don't have to put in quotation marks.
give me chase taub thirteen.
oh yeah. (looking around the newly decorated office) it went to interior designers i understand.
i am?
what do you got?
boredom is not transmissible.
nice.
nothing.
start what? i'm enjoying our conversation. the repartee.
that was repartee.
it's just good to hear your voice.
that's my whiteboard. i need it. and he really doesn't care how the cast comes off.
i'll take this outside.
(answering the phone) yeah.
good.
yeah.
he'd have to be pretty drunk for it to affect a pool of plasma.
who's painting?
(speaking it at the same time as park does) lead.
reverend moon started it about 20 minutes ago. you missed lunch tracking down the plasma donors. got you a reuben from the cafeteria.
it will.
oh no she could die. but technically it will still pay off. even if your patient dies someone will get the lungs.
(into the phone) page dr. pinto stat to the cath lab.
what? who? one dead lobe means four alive ones. it means enough to transplant with a side order of dead tissue that we can test.
you have unlimited texting. until your parents know you will never see that punch for what it really was. your february 4th. sri lankan independence day.
and i told you i wasn't listening. by my actions.
you barked at me picked a fight with a painting crew. maybe it's time to recognize it's not a character flaw. maybe it's your character.
(acknowledging the doctor) pinto!
(to park) embrace your inner bitch.
so why did chelation make the lungs worse?
we got about five minutes till pinto gets back. give me a hand with this.
sarcoidosis could be inflamed by the treatment. (he looks at the chair then back at park) i am a cripple in need of assistance.
it's mine. and it's your job.
this chair will help me do that.
chelation for lead wouldn't have made them worse.
but maybe the problem isn't a heavy metal from outside. it's inside. but it's not leaving the body like it's supposed to. it's stuck. iron. the donor had hemosiderosis.
go stain the dead lung tissue for iron.
i'm sorry young lady i simply will not help you steal this chair.
pinto.
enter.
ah explains the hole in this chair.
god i missed doors. and air freshener.
now go away. i'm waiting for some test results.
it's not my fault you can't handle your patient.
and what's after respect? you find another angle. you hold her hand get the sister to beg (he throws the magazine onto the side table) stick your fingers in your ears pretend you can't hear. you do whatever it takes.
infection was right after all.
fresh fruit in prison is usually chicken.
(yelling) aahh she's dying! (speaking normally again) were you able to figure out what was wrong while i was screaming?
which would have worked if the bacteria had been out in the open. if they're hiding inside the lung cells i'm thinking brucella. and to wipe that out you need special ops. (park looks confused) an intact immune system.
they're part of the immune defense force like the infantry. but those lungs need the air force and the marines antibodies raining down from above. (park still does not understand)
(explaining) antibiotics and ivig.
no they were stupid too.
(lifting his head to look at wilson) case is under control. it's me time.
so we're good?
i like you. (wiison stops and looks back at house) i have fun with you. (house pushes up to a sitting postion) and if you can honestly say that you don't like me you don't have fun with me i can accept that. but just do whatever you have to do to get over this. you can punch me in the face kick me in the nuts. either/or. both seems excessive.
when did the discoloration start?
means we're wrong about infection.
wrong about autoimmune not cancer heavy metals genetic issues increase peep.
i need i need ideas.
that's already ruled out.
(frustrated) no--o.
we're out of time when we're out of time. when they die or she dies. keep them stable as long as you can. i need to think. (he leaves)
the lungs are a smoker. (speaking to the lungs) you of all people should know better.
he played poker. who plays poker without cigars? even if he didn't light up himself it was a rainy night. the windows were closed.
all parents think their kids are special. and these ones were right. at least his white blood cells were special. they had an on switch for reacting to smoke but no off. when he inhaled small amounts of smoke he had small problems. no one even noticed. big amounts of smoke that's enough to trash a lung. as soon as he breathed in all that cigar smoke he was a dead man. the motorcycle accident was an unnecessary dramatic flourish.
i was right. not about anything medical but my metaphors were perfect. we need to hit it harder. we need to carpet bomb blitzkrieg. we need the nuclear option.
see the metaphors work.
won't be fast enough. wilson needs these lungs.
well that sucks. where are chase taub and thirteen gonna sit?
oof!
(still lying on the floor and rubbing his jaw) i heard about a good new vegetarian place.
if i do it at home i'm the one who has to clean it up.
new life new look.
if you're asking if your job is safe that depends on what you have to say about the file you're holding.
you are. tell me why.
e.r. found nothing wrong then i decided i should test his wallet.
no we're taking the case because no one knows what's wrong with him. and he's rich.
dr. adams. (to park) give her the file.
my m.o. depends upon the use of a team. definitionally that involves more than one person. so i really have no choice. give her the file.
adams is free. and i'm referring both to her availability and her price tag (adams gives him a look). new girl meet newer girl and vice versa.
well when someone asks if you want coffee they obviously don't just mean coffee. wait did you think i was referring to sex? (to park) would you shut the blinds on your way out?
talking about medicine. specifically as it refers to the guy whose name is on the file she still hasn't handed you.
in the meantime there's no way a do-gooder like you has been volunteering all over town <U+0097> ladling kittens spaying soup
well think of this as today's free clinic. only with fewer bums with herpes.
what happened the last time another doctor told you i was wrong about a case?
you saved a life.
that's because helping others is his yorkie oil painting.
that's right all those babies with aids they're just using us.
(pointing to adams) rebuttal.
i object to your cynicism.
that's what i object to. the new dean of medicine has an ethical obligation to come in with a completely open mind about all employees thus letting me blithely run roughshod for at least four weeks.
(sarcastically) what?
[shouts] what?
i talked to chase and taub. they're willing to come back.
not a good choice. she's not long term because she has no long term.
she will.
unexplained loss of consciousness could be cardiomyopathy global anoxia subarachnoid hemorrhage<U+0097>
(to park) send him home. and check with admitting for the net worth of all new patients.
technically you're back right now.
i'm putting the band back together.
(showing her his monitor) guilty as charged. literally.
the job went away but not the profession. you look healthy so that's not it. you met a boy. or a girl. fall in love wanna be happy. you decided to enjoy what time you have left. you're going to thailand.
no you wanna like boring. but if you actually liked boring you would have figured that out in fifth grade when you were bored.
(as she leaves) no.
you showed up to tell me that you don't want to hear from me. that's a mixed signal. i will choose to listen to your actions rather than your words. they're more honest.
which is awesome. now there's something to cure which means there's something to be disproportionately financially grateful for.
arrhythmia could easily have caused the collapse that landed father teresa in here in the first place.
if it was whipple's there'd be some kind of neurological involvement.
racing heart: medical condition. bleeding heart: stupid condition.
i'm told that some people are just nice. i'm trying to embrace that wisdom.
flush him with saline get rid of the antihistamines then do an ekg. no wait. i'll do the flushing. (to adams) take the damn $2.00. she hasn't even sipped the coffee. (walks out)
i just got so angry. you know? so i made a terrible mistake. now i'm trying to start my life over. to help people the way i always wanted. but my department got defunded and it's my fault. just can't stand to think of all those patients going untreated because i don't have the resources to do my best work.
how do you mean?
wow. i am an opportunistic ex-con who just gave you a two-minute sob story as step three in my master plan and you've offered me a million dollars. which is step 17.
ethics are not my strong suit.
hypothetical <U+0097> if i'm offered oral sex from a sexaholic do i have to decline? don't answer yet. saying no will cause both of us pain. saying yes will cause both of us pleasure.
could be wrong about the symptom. i'm wrong all the time.
what is this canada? all we do is take money from sick people.
i'm working!
20 dollars. (wilson gesticulates) well what if it was? it's the same principle. 20 dollars a million what's the difference?
he came up with the figure not me.
what?
it's all moot. patient probably has long qt. probably just a really really decent person. they exist right?
so arrhythmia fainting muscle tremors. plus unfortunately mental changes.
god bless you.
(to park) she's not drinking the coffee either.
yeah why?
your parents didn't love you enough. so you need to prove your superiority. or they love you too much so you need to prove your humility. or it's just rich guilt. i'm betting on the last one.
i doubt the guy would spend money on drugs when there are orphans out there without cable.
[echoing] virus virus virus virus
start him on antivirals. and adams when you treat and he gets better and doesn't give bob cratchit christmas day off you owe me a coffee. (he gets up and walks out)
thank you. appreciate your help.
no not at all.
yes absolutely.
great. see you tomorrow morning.
afternoon? i can't think of another interpretation.
(looking at his computer screen) everything has gone blue. that's not supposed to happen right?
no you don't have to do that. although if you did come maybe you could swing by the hunan palace and get some lo mein and a szechuan beef.
oh okay then. guess i'll get something from the hospital cafeteria which is where i get all my meals since i can't go anywhere.
you're a peach.
better. we're discharging him.
hey hey hey. why do you care? specifically. although i'm curious about a general answer too.
did he meet your patient with renal failure?
i was wrong.
he's not better. his mental status is declining.
i thought it was an ethical no-brainer that we can't take stuff from sick people.
he's still sick.
not all of them. offering an organ to a stranger is a symptom.
yeah how many of them are also in the process of pauperizing themselves?
you do! yesterday when you made the exact opposite argument. if there's even a chance i'm right it'd be dangerous to give his kidney to someone else.
yeah. if only we could kill 60000 more people a year all would be golden.
see? crazy.
people with mental deficiency can be logical. just like sane people can be illogical.
no you won't. (limps out to a bench where park is sitting. she gets up and follows him)
we have time for one more test before we move him.
whatever test will prove there was an echovirus-irus-irus and he's not cured obviously.
bad idea. there's no joint pain. where's adams?
'cause i called her. bigger question is why that worked.
we're too busy for rationalizations. patient made a big downgrade in his personal life. he's probably not eating all that healthy.
wait until they take him back to his room <U+0097> draw blood do an expanded electrolyte profile.
(to park) you were right. counts for nothing if you can't defend it. book a procedure room. do an upper endoscopy and run a pcr test for whipple's.
guilt. you feel guilty about leaving.
not leaving me. leaving humanity.
to have fun.
oh no one's unhappy in greece.
does it itch? do anything different lately? you get a new baseball glove a new kitten?
it is in the water.
no [inhales deeply] he's allergic to summer lilac.
no it's on the palms of his hands. in the pool is the neighbor's daughter. or the neighbor's hot wife. here's some lube. (gives it to the kid) sorry. too late for your eyesight.
found it in my office. appears to be a gift. that can't be good. (gives it to park)
you got her the job interview.
good for you! you loon.
so either you're so insecure that you feel like you need to always have the upper hand or you're so arrogant that the notion of a favor is insulting to you. or it's your family some kind of immigrant pride thing. i'm betting on the last one.
that's the reason? ickiness? you never even tried to analyze this? it's even crazier than the gift thing.
well we did what we could.
ah dr. foreman. perhaps you can help us. i can't decide whether to take out an i told you so ad in the new england journal or stay classy and just spray-paint it on your car.
that seems like an overreaction.
don't apologize. i don't know if you're power crazed or paranoid but i know she's right. two lives are in the balance here.
and i was your boss for seven years. and i know what a suspicious micromanaging hard-ass you are. why would i do this now? knowing you can send me right back to jail?
nothing! you can't prove otherwise. so why don't you do the smart thing here?
[sighs] he's the boss. and he's right.
i assume you're interpreting my actions in the best possible light 'cause you didn't get the job? [paper crumpling] what's with you and park?
i expect my people to lie better than that. either you're getting her gifts because you want her to like you in which case i don't like you or you're getting her gifts to screw with her. in which case i will be teaching you my secret homey handshake.
but now?
[chuckles softly] what was in the box?
nah that's not gonna do it. you're up against a lifetime of training. if you wanna win you gotta do something she can't possibly reciprocate. you gotta push her neuroses to the point where even she thinks that she's crazy.
one more favor. then i promise i'll leave you alone forever. or i'm lying. either way it's more interesting than whatever you're doing now.
you know the down vibe in here is totally ruining my charlie's angels fantasy. [buzzing continues] (to park) and that haircut isn't helping either.
or pericarditis.
it's unlikely but it's possible. what else? (nobody says a thing) i said what else?
oh for
there. that's better. now what else? (thirteen adams and park are all out of ideas.) well if there's nothing better than possible then possible gets upgraded to probable.
so what's the answer? are you now on the team? [mocking park] like forever?
'cause i was thinking of ordering t-shirts.
so guilt?
obviously not.
how's your patient?
i have a gift. (suddenly it hits him. he gets one of his million-yard stares those where he figures what's the deal with his patient typical when he's with wilson)
it was a con.
no i was. i brought him in here under false pretenses. just to get his money. i ordered a bunch of random tests to keep him here. one of them was a head ct which uses iodine contrast.
no again. just don't interrupt me. thirteen was right. this is a thyroid issue. he has plummer's disease. (he gets up) he has a nodule in his thyroid. it produces excess hormone. not enough to test abnormal just more than his brain is used to. just enough to make him irrationally generous make him vulnerable to overheating.
i said don't interrupt. but yes you're right. take out the nodule he'll be fine.
two days one surgery. i now accept that you're all better. where's my money?
you were already sick. i just made you much much worse. seriously the money. you're not giving it to me are you?
you love your family. you want them back. your altruism was always a symptom.
keep less? how much less? just enough to spoil your kids?
but they need it more than people with tb or children in indonesia with no eyes? diagnosticians with hearts of gold?
i was an ass last week.
no. it makes you a healthy person. (walks out)
good work. need a lift tomorrow? 'cause your car is still in the shop.
nothing is ever over. (park leaves)
thirteen. wait a minute. (thirteen walks towards house) you're fired.
i'm not joking. you're fired. don't come in tomorrow.
i can work with people who've got nowhere else to go. people who got something to prove. people who just get off on weird cases. what i can't work with is someone who's here so she doesn't have to feel bad.
yes i think that little of you and that much of me.
this would totally suck.
funduscopic exam was normal. if you don't let me read my email then i won't be able to read the email to the entire staff. from your ex-boss. [she opens the laptop back up.] thank you. [reading the email] last month i had an incident involving another p.p.t.h. employee. though i can't speak to the details of the case while my disciplinary hearing is pending i want you to know that i have completed voluntary sexual harassment training. and on a personal note if my actions caused anyone distress i sincerely apologize. you are so fired.
what? because he said he apologized? he's saying he's sorry that someone namely you overreacted <U+0097> namely by punching him.
word is it was a celebratory slap after you completed your first-ever avm embolization.
the classes make him sympathetic. which in turn makes his unrepentant attacker evil. which in turn in turn makes you so fired.
oh you don't wanna bet me.
oh my.
you're fired.
but i thought<U+0097>
if only<U+0097>
i'll take that action too but you're already a c-note in the hole.
you're late.
pearl earrings? knee-length dress. that's not a very shameful walk of shame.
i hope it went terribly.
i am an equal opportunity exploiter. i only help those who can help myself. [buzzing sound in the background. a cast is being sawed off in the orthopedics room house's former diagnostics room.] i have a department to re-fund.
pupils are normal.
not a terrible idea. i'm gonna go give him p.t.u. and t.l.c. i have no idea what that second one stands for.
well then these giant balls of medicine are not gonna work anymore. the change actually makes things simpler. your occipital lobe is acting up giving you a migraine.
i never joke. good news is it's treatable with medication. bad news is it can make you very very late for very important dates. i sometimes joke.
i get it. answer's no. shouldn't have said anything. i'm just glad that the symptoms showed up before you left for china. [he hands barton the prescription.] 'cause i'm not sure the doctors over there would be so optimistic considering [speaking mandarin] how they look down on mental illness.
oh just how different the two cultures are. for example our opinions on mental illness. here it's considered a normal and treatable condition. [speaking mandarin] there it's taboo enough to destroy a high profile business deal.
you're hired! oh you guys are gonna love doctors chase and taub. [he grabs a chair and sits with them.] keep your nazi sentiments quiet around the little one.
patient's a smart businessman.
jobs are not being destroyed. they're being relocated. the fact that you see that as inherently bad means you're an irrational patriot. to put it another way a patriot.
iranian women. drag queens in uganda. patriotism is nothing but loyalty to real estate real estate that's been conquered 800 times by 800 different regimes with 800 different cultures. but each time it's just the best. [house leans in and grabs the burger in adams's plate.] i claim this burger in the name of queen isabella of spain.
he's never gonna know. he's actually in here right now.
i think it could be hyperviscosity syndrome. sorry but after park sent out here hospital-wide non-apology apology this morning i assume that plagiarism is the new black.
copying him makes you look pathetic. and i will pay you not to go to anger management classes.
it's possible. adams is the one who needs to deal with her anger.
i heard about your conversation with the patient's daughter. you were hostile.
yet you were never anything but courteous to the racists and rapists in prison. those guys made decisions you supported?
i'm guessing it has something to do with the funeral you attended yesterday morning.
you got to work at 9:15. closest hospital with an opening in your specialty is 45 minutes away. it's not possible. my condolences.
that just leaves everywhere but a job interview.
who goes there? reveal yourself!
well we would. but orthopedics is still squatting in two thirds of my office which is weird 'cause you got a large check last night. [he points at the desk.]
holding your ass. you really didn't know?
just trying to help you out here. i figure for sure he'd punch me in the face thus proving it's a natural response. my god you have super-human discipline. and glutes.
we have a bet.
you two really need to do your homework with me. treat the patient with activated protein c.
exactly. it's a conclusive test. there's no actual risk. [the elevator doors open and house enters.] as long as you're both paying attention and are both good enough to work here. [the doors close.]
itching. interesting.
doubly interesting. means we have to explain the arrival and the departure.
different wavelengths are stimulating your autonomic nervous system. that's what's making you feel like you're on a boat in choppy waters.
oh ho ho! cool.
now if i punched him in the face that he could prove.
this is about reclaiming stolen property! loyalty to real estate is stupid because loyalty is stupid.
french vanilla yeah. to willfully identify yourself as something else is a perversion of self-expression.
dutch chocolate's not bad. gotta give 'em that.
in other words loyalty gave him cancer. i like it. start him on radiation. [he leaves his office.]
the best halloween costumes are always the ones that need an explanation. [park comes in.] what took you so long? i already lost one of them.
no i think i got palliative. why don't you take preventative?
which he started. which means he's both irascible and stupid.
i can't comment on the drunk or the frat. but chang and eng were both in fact born in siam. and they were in fact twins. if your name was richard it would be okay for me to call you a dick. but maybe some of the tripe you learn in anger management class might help keep this guy out of here the next time.
okay let's go.
no i got everything i need.
sometimes [with playback] it's incredibly satisfying to wind up and punch someone who deserves it. wonder what the committee's gonna make of that.
let's look at segmental wall motion abnormalities. get him an echo to confirm. i need $200000. [adams looks shocked and amused.] his company's lost one third of its value since he was admitted.
it's not insider trading. just betting on myself to solve the case. once we cure him share price goes up i pay you back.
no you don't say no. you make a counter offer.
fine. i'll make you a counter. $100000. $20000. i'll buy options instead of shares. more risk but more upside. but that's as low as i'm gonna go.
really? no backsies.
so you want twice as many of them disrespected?
and this time a land war in russia will be a good idea.
here's what i'm thinking. you went to a parole hearing where one of your old patients was denied. hence the attire hence the tardiness. and most important hence the anger. you think you can restore the cosmic balance by doing extra good here. more annoyingly by having me do it. [adams walks away.] and deal!
of course you know this means war.
nice idea. even has a metaphor in it. not worth more than my honor. but delightful all the same.
you will be eloquent in your loss. this case boils down to he said she said. he said i've been working at this hospital for 15 years and i'm taking self-improvement classes. she said i've been a fellow for two months and i'm kind of weird.
andrews was taking sexual harassment classes not aa. that means he didn't get in trouble for drinking. which means that foreman signed off on it which means that he set all the wheels in motion. forget that. wild speculation. go do the ep study.
seems healthy to me. let's release him. my option to sell barton foods at $34 is about to expire. so they thought the patient would be better by now. instead i am going to lose $20000.
your five plus the five i stole from wilson. plus the ten i got on margin. you're gonna have to talk to my bankruptcy attorney. [he grabs the chocolate bar he paid for.] unless there is a way that you can get your money back. [they all star walking.] give me the full $200000.
it's your own fault. you forced me to go with the options here. your damn anger issues are screwing with my finances. regular stock this time nice and safe.
you refuse to bet on yourself. that means low self-esteem.
low self-esteem can be brought on by exposure to one's relatives. nice clothes and anger classic symptoms. family gathering. you were late the other day 'cause you were having breakfast with grammy adams or cousin itt. and she was nagging you about finding a husband.
ah ah ah ah! [he stops her with his cane.] no spoilers. they ruin everything.
our patient's lung problem is not a lung problem. it's a brain problem. we're consulting with neurology.
i don't know what it is. maybe i should just accept the patient's death if getting help can lead to awkwardness.
dr. andrews. my associates. doctors adams and park. [park seems very uncomfortable.]
you really wanna turn your back on this guy? sorry. carry on.
okay normal pressure hydrocephalus going once. normal pressure hydrocephalus going twice
do you really believe in this diagnosis? because if this is just a pissing contest you are at a severe anatomical disadvantage.
no it's normal pressure hydrocephalus. do a spinal fluid test to confirm.
you guys better fire her for insubordination 'cause she went rogue and my patient is now in a coma.
at least i'm smart enough to know what i don't know. she went out of her way to defy me! she needs<U+0097>[screaming out of sight] damn it you should just fire her!
right back at ya. our patient's dying. we need theories.
yeah but even a broken doctor's right twice a day. patient wasn't wet wobbly or wacky. coma had to be a lucky guess.
i didn't. i wanted you to do a tilt table test.
i knew park wanted to do a tilt table. she listens to me i waste an hour. if she defies me then i get the test i want and my 100 bucks. [holding his hand up] up high.
you're angry.
no. what else would explain our symptoms and make our patient go into a coma during that test? how 'bout hepatic encephalopathy?
or his liver's so far gone it can't even produce enzymes.
we ruled that out three days ago.
once something gets taken off the board i'm the only one who's allowed to put it back on.
god but you're petty. okay so two options. either we figure out what's wrong with this guy or we figure out how to make this company profitable in new jersey.
ah shut it off!
apparently we're allowed to do this now.
this diagnosis was brought to you by the letter y.
that's a side effect of not dying. turns out your blood was getting thick and syrupy. complexes of large y-shaped antibodies were clogging up your blood vessels causing your organs to shut down one by one. now usually with hyperviscosity syndrome it's caused by an elevated blood count or protein count. yours eluded us 'cause it was caused by antibodies from your rheumatoid arthritis. now that they're being filtered out the blood would be a little less duck sauce and a little more soy sauce.
it's not all about you. your stock price will be completely cured. once you sign this. [he hands him the paper.] it's a press release. it says that you're healthy you're going back to work and you're signing the lease that officially moves the company to china.
ah mm yeah actually he does. 'cause the market opens at 9:00 a.m. and this means a lot to me. you may remember me from the time i saved your life.
morning.
got lucky this time.
i sabotaged her hearing. you do read the school paper don't you?
'cause the panel feels badly for incompetent doctors who nearly kill people.
that's just hurtful. the fact is winning $100 from you gives me more pleasure than winning $100 from her. here's your five grand. [house hands him a check and wilson takes it surprised.]
just take it. trust me.
found her sleeping in the park. said she ran away because her daddy didn't love her. and that is exactly what happened as far as you can prove.
fine. clinic hours. i'll double them.
no three times two equals six.
call chase and taub. get 'em in here. the boys are back.
i know.
congratulations.
you caught your boyfriend cheating that morning. you had a big fight. that's why you were late. you re-pitched an s.t.d. you haven't gotten two consecutive minutes without using the word loyalty which explains the anger and the low self-esteem and the desire to feel pretty after having been rejected explains the clothes.
wow. i missed the fact that you were married.
so old news? no anger left? [he waits for her answer but she stays quiet. house grabs a baseball bat and hands it to adams. he shows her all the equipment left around them.] it's all bought and paid for.
what was he doing when his heart decided to do the mambo?
you're late.
beard's a nice touch. lets everyone know that you're not a teenage girl. [chase takes a chair and sits next to adams.] oh now you two make a cute couple. [taub prepares to sit next to park who stands as he approaches.] and you two [faux stammers] it's not important.
he's lying not just taub the patient. these abrasions on his knees they're minty fresh about ten hours old.
he said he got them playing flag football. i'm sure that's true if flag is a euphemism for penis and football is a euphemism for entering a vagina.
speaking of which how are your two baby girls?
[making a big show of oops <U+0097> wrong thing to say] awkward! [normal voice] he knocked up two different women at the same time at least he thinks he did. you have them dna tested yet?
but they will grow. find out what else he's lying about. do an exercise test see if you can get him to go back into v-fib again.
hopefully. then we'll know what set it off.
the prodigal son has returned. [he hugs chase and slaps his back. chase stands there impassive.] now if you'll excuse me i have to go slaughter a fatted calf for lunch.
[loudly] i spent a month in solitary. you don't think i can keep this up all day?
[loudly] chase and taub are back!
i also think that taub has brought his little taubettes into work with him today.
because i didn't give him time to do anything else. then i started wondering who'd be sappy enough to watch them for him?
what? i just came for a chat with a friend. what's that i smell friend?
you should probably lie down and rest.
[at the door] oh! there is one more thing.
[sticking his head in the door at just the right moment] or i fire you. look what i found [he wheels in the taubettes.] kiddie-winkies! i wonder who they belong to.
no. i genuinely wonder who they belong to. i need a dna sample. [he holds up a wrapped swab.]
already did. this swab's for you. [taub removes house's cane from the stroller and trades it with house for the swab. he throws the swab away and wheels the girls to the far end of the room.] fine. if you don't mind paying a fortune in child support for some other guy's kids no skin cells off my cheek.
myocarditis wouldn't cause a seizure.
oh my god. two prodigal sons. come on. let's hug it out. [he holds his arms wide.]
it's a stupid idea. we would have seen evidence of brugada in the e.k.g. [he looks at parks & adams who are slumped on the couch.] you know this is this is just messing with my feng shui here. what about over there? [points to the wall where the conference table used to be.]
boring!
would it hurt to do both? [flops over the couch back and lies down] oh this is much better! i said it was boring. i didn't say it was wrong.
nope. you're wrong. photic epilepsy it's equally boring but it has the advantage of possibly being right. give him an e.e.g. to confirm.
a dream.
i know because he has a pheochromocytoma.
you were wrong not to rule out epilepsy first. that only takes a couple of hours. finding a tumor that's flushing adrenaline through his system is gonna take all night. monitor his brain activity start a continuous urine test and blood draws every two hours.
chase and adams can do the test.
for the massage bed. you and park are checking the motel he was bumping uglies at for environmental factors.
well i'm not gonna make them work day and night. so i chose night. [he spits into a mug.]
he's only guessing. i'm talking to taub. he can't say my kids until he lets me test them. tell me about the love shack where he cheated on his bride.
probably want to boil the kids for a couple hours when you get home.
fusobacterium necrophorum was one of them. [he puts on his dress shirt and buttons it.]
the bulge in his neck. the bacteria colonized his parapharyngeal space moved into his jugular vein causing a thrombus lemierre's syndrome. treat with amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. take out the clot before it moves to his lungs and kills him.
you have at least a trillion cells. you're gonna misplace one of them eventually.
but not his swollen lymph nodes.
i'm an ex-con trying to adjust to a world that's passed me by. stealing's all i know that and the fact that i was right about what's wrong with our patient. just wrong about what?
that's why we're gonna blast him with broad-spectrum antibiotics.
[adding a toaster to his bag] and old team for the win! [chase and taub mildly pump their fists at each other.] not that i'm keeping score. it's more of a grid where i assign numerical values to determine who gets raises vacation time and my respect.
aw that is cute. [drinking a martini] i'm talking about your breasts. [she puts a hand up to pull the neck of her dress closed.] they always get perky when you're being painfully earnest. truth. it's uncomfortable isn't it? more truth i only noticed because chase was staring at them. [he sits at the table and continues.] he'd never admit it because he doesn't want to offend you. same reason he'd never tell you that he's thought about having sex with you. although to be fair every man you've ever met has thought about having sex with you. they'll lie because if you knew you probably wouldn't want to have sex with them. and that's just some of the lies from the last minute. and here's a bigger one you already know this but you pretend you don't because it makes you feel civilized. most people find it easier to ignore the truth. ask taub. our patient can't wait for a transplant that's never gonna come. we need to get reckless and extreme. c.t. his liver find the damaged area and cut it out. hopefully what's left will be enough so we can start treatment with broad-spectrum antibiotics.
interesting question is why is it regenerating?
and scene. now we're back to boring reality reality. his liver was in shock before. he's been having an allergic reaction since he got here.
or who. this all started when he cheated on his wife.
or something she's wearing makeup perfume birth control method her hello kitty doll. two of you go find her and find out what. two of you start treatment with corticosteroids and epinephrine while you run the scratch test.
i take it you're in the latter category.
[clicks his pen a few times] it fits. case closed. why don't you go home and get some sleep?
because there isn't one. the aneurysm is just another symptom. it's not the cause. you add them all together we get [he waits but the team doesn't answer.] we get kaw kawas kawas [exasperated] it's kawasaki's disease. it's autoimmune.
which you might have by the way. which is basically why we missed it. rug burns certain carpet-cleaning chemicals have been linked to it. start treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin. monitor the aneurysm. if it doesn't resolve itself we'll have to repair it. [addressing taub adams and park on his way out] the rest of you aren't surfing enough.
really? you don't think i should have gone with rat? i've been second-guessing myself all day.
first admit that i was right.
yeah i'll admit to that. now you admit that it was incredibly easy because you can't cheat an honest man.
what about both? could be. haven't read these. now say i was right.
you do and i'll prove it. i will shred this. i will call off my pool return the money and we'll forget all about it. or we'll go to the light box in the lab and know the truth once and for all.
new team old team i present phase one of operation outer office 2.0.
oh everything has changed.
you're forgetting the wrinkly clump in the middle of his shirt. thought we'd diagnose the middle-aged clown first.
wrinkle pattern's too varied. it looks like someone shoved you or grabbed you.
the tox screen was clean. i'm gonna say it was the ex-girlfriend you cheated on not the ex-wife you cheated with. if the latter was prone to violence you'd have been scattered in various dumpsters years ago.
carotid duplex is normal. who's better qualified to be the daddy? the guy who spilled a little dna in her gene pool or the guy who's gonna be there day and night to pass on important values like not shtupping mommy after the divorce?
makes sense. park's tiger mom and dad were so insufferable she has to measure their affection in hours. chase's careerist dad and alcoholic mom were so indifferent he has to believe it's a wash. (looking at adams) your turn. what did your screwed-up parents do to screw up your view of parenting?
that's an oxymoron. chase is right. all parents screw up all children. he's also dreamy but it's not relevant now.
transesophageal echo to confirm. screwed up is your best case. bouncing between a philandering workaholic dad and an embittered sexually betrayed mom it's gonna lead to screwed-up squared.
there is absolutely no part of that sentence that is true.
weight loss is a symptom of diabetes. fatigue is a symptom of thinking you have disease you don't actually have and sluggishness is a synonym of fatigue.
much as i'd like to kill you by dangerously lowering your blood sugar murder violates my parole.
i am the test. the test is negative. the test also thinks you're a giant pain in the ass. that last insult was your cue to leave.
fine. wait right here.
(to a nurse) sleep study. please make sure he's not disturbed for the next eight hours.
no no no no no. historians will talk of saturday night not us. the legendary night on which we watch santos shatter rubio's jaw and you epically pay me $50.00.
uh no thanks. i'm afraid i'm gonna have to decline your invitation to not spend saturday night with you.
cameras are ringside too. if you want i could sweat and spit and bleed on you from time to time.
well i'd take me if either of us could. see what a tough spot i'm in?
all right i'll take the other ticket. let me worry about logistics.
he has a heart problem but not one that could have caused his t.i.a.
yeah i got that from the line in his chart that says birthday clown.
he's not immuno-compromised. (to taub) and i assume you added that irrelevant tidbit because you're moved by the son's idiotic tribute and think it justifies keeping your daughter in new jersey.
take your time. we'll continue with the medicine.
sjogren's it is. iv immunosuppressants to treat. (looking at taub) anything?
her? surely this bundle of fun has an actual name.
ruby dropped her off. seemed pretty upset. apparently someone forgot that it was daddy's night. she wasn't even gonna leave her until i said that i was letting you off early.
she doesn't seem to like that idea. you're right. (speaking baby talk) he has no schistocytes in his smear. (chase grins)
(to taub) she wasn't fussing like that when i was holding her. maybe she likes the sound of my voice which is weird because i have no genetic connection to her. (he stands) could it be she doesn't know the difference?
good point. how could i comprehend that you're too despised to keep them from having the same name too overwhelmed to remember your own calendar and too vain to admit that at this stage you don't matter to either baby.
what if you're all right? low platelets plus low red count plus low white count equals
kid needs a bone marrow transplant. everyone except adams transfuse his platelets till you find a match.
(to adams) you started college a semester late because you left high school a semester late because (he pulls a small note our of his breast pocket and reads it) you had five incompletes in your junior year.
did okay before that. straight as after that.
don't tell me. mom and dad were at each other's throats and the academic crisis was a cry for help.
sorry. since you paged me i didn't want to keep you waiting.
that's cool. i'll wait.
i hate conferences.
halve the clinic hours that you recently doubled and double the hooker budget that you recently halved. i think you refer to it as petty cash.
you said that 9:00 was the premium slot. i mean i want to feel like i've earned my hookers.
but that'd be redundant when i have an angry black guy waiting for me to drop the soap right here.
looks like i was wrong about my diagnosis.
no but you're not a hypochondriac or you would have imagined some new disease after i shot down the first one. so whose urine is that? diabetic girlfriend without health insurance?
the medical term is cankles. (sitting down on the stool) is there some black market in insulin that i don't know about?
well it's a great argument if diabetes was a gold watch.
(reading the file) if the kid's dad died young of melanoma how come the overprotective mom never took him to a dermatologist?
not diabetes. (turning back to chase and taub) use cross-matched platelets. try to find the patient some blood that's closer to his own. and get the real story on clown senior's death. mom's hiding something. it's a good bet that it's medically relevant.
apple juice. easiest way to fake a spike in blood sugar.
nope. no realization whatsoever.
i was happy watching the fight on pay-per-view. you're the one who insisted we go to atlantic city.
you're trying to deflect.
my decent daddy of the cloth was also being indecent with my married mom. he probably would have taken other kids to the playground.
it's not my fault. bad parenting. (house slides out of the booth and leaves)
(from the phone) won't even trust a co-worker. what did your parents do to you?
liver failure. explains everything. the question is what explains the liver failure?
more curiously what explains the mom lying about dad pushing up squirting daisies?
'cause i'm stunned and i have to look at something. match bout fight contest day helena. almost anything works after boxing except the word game.
can you believe she used to work in the can? nothing is tamper-proof.
you're defending the father because you feel like a jerk for baking buns in two different ovens. you want to believe the mythical biological connection excuses being a man slut. ow! (to the workman) i don't know why i'm starting to doubt your expertise. you do have a classified ad and a piece of metal.
or she ripped off the band-aid too late. that memory that she let son of bozo establish is making him chase his father's moronic profession when he could be living the high life in portland. and i mean that metaphorically of course.
(to the workman) this is where you dazzle me with your contingency plan.
i see why employers are reluctant to hire ex-cons.
get the mom's consent to pump him full of protein. if it's a synthetic problem more fluid will leak into his chest and his heart will fail. if it's hyperammonemic toxins will overwhelm his body and he'll go into a coma.
there are some slower less conclusive tests but why take that risk? (he hurries out of the office and down the hall)
(acting surprised) oh my god. the water. this is completely my fault. (foreman looks extremely angry)
unless you're a locksmith or an electrician with political contacts. i'm busy.
my condolences on your forthcoming divorce.
since i have no intention of testing him treating him or cooking for him (he looks up from his leg and sees the syringes)
the advantage of fake prescriptions is you don't have to be a real doctor to write one.
imaginary medicine is not my specialty. i do have an imaginary colleague who's just sent me an imaginary page. (he picks up his cane and gets up from the chair) imagine how sorry i am. (house leaves the office)
(to taub) didn't answer your page last night.
and mom's determination to keep dad away even as her kid gets sicker and sicker means she's got more to hide.
you just lost my vote. you flip-flopped on parental rights.
well that very evolved of you. don't usually see darwinian changes over breakfast. you made nice-nice with phil. you decided that he'd make a decent father for thing 2 after all.
hey we're having a conversation here. no abdominal pain. (to taub) so that must have been nice having ruby and the baby under one roof.
isn't that getting this whole parenting thing ass backwards? aren't you supposed to figure out what you can sacrifice to maximize their niceness?
just one life until the other one's mommy meets someone nicer than you.
(to himself) swelling. cankles.
it's burkitt's. prep him for chemo.
cankles.
if you double his placebo he might drown. (monroe looks at his wife) also you forgot to mention that your heart rate is slow.
the technical term is slow. those awful anti-diabetic meals you eat do they contain bok choy?
bok choy has glucosinolates which inhibit thyroid function and account for all your symptoms.
you have a bad case of irony. the food that you're eating to stop making you sick is making you sick.
on the other hand maybe you're fat enough to get diabetes even without em. (house leaves the exam room)
no rush. icu stands for take your time in latin.
that would mean that every symptom after his t.i.a. was a coincidence.
bingo. fits perfectly. check the file confirm that we did major abdominal surgery on him and then completely forgot about it.
(to mitchell) wait. (approaching him) you sexually molested your son. your walk tabes dorsalis. you have late-stage syphilis which you gave to our patient presumably 12 years ago which also explains why mom is not big on family reunions.
after 12 years the active infection would have died down. everywhere except the arteries in his brain where it could hide out from our tests. (as house talks there is flashback of the boy hitting ben in the testicles then a computer generated graphic of the series of events as house describes them) but when that six-year-old heckler punched him in his juggling pins it kicked up the dormant bacteria in his pelvis. the immunosuppressant's we gave him sent it into overdrive. the antibiotics we gave him actually started destroying the syphilis. but like pouring water on a fire that led to a trail of toxic smoke and ash which made his immune system overcompensate. severe jarisch-herxheimer reaction.
yes jarisch-herxheimer is real. it sounds silly but oh you mean the the right.
so you made daddy go away and you made sure junior had no reason to go looking.
iv penicillin and anti-tnf antibodies he'll be fine. apart from the whole daddy-rape thing.
no we are not. notify the dad's sexual partners. notify his employer his landlord. notify the police.
to make him miserable or to forfeit your license?
i guess taub's got a tough choice to make when the kid wakes up.
'cause you're a dad. how could the rest of us possibly understand?
(taking off his reading glasses) your heart said he needed to know. your brain knew he's better off without it. following your heart is easy. following your brain is tough. especially after years of following that much smaller third organ. that's why all parents screw up all children.
evening.
how could that possibly work as a tactic? the fact is once i saw those incompletes i knew your parents screwed you up. the details are just gravy.
because you had lousy parents.
you envied their dysfunction.
that's when you started to excel. you were making it up to them. your parents screwed you up by not screwing you up.
it's normal to be screwed up. it's really screwed up to romanticize it. i guess that's why you wanted to work with prisoners.
it was a tactic. (he walks away)
patuxent river naval air station near d.c. was commissioned in 1943 by john mccain's grandfather. i'm thinking of going hang gliding.
i like their oranges and lint. what looks like kidney disease but isn't? [hands them files] and where's chase?
[not taking the file] smells funny.
[picks up a red file] patient went from asymptomatic to fried kidneys in less than a year. stumped three internists and a department chair from harvard.
four-year-old boy consistently at death's door.
i didn't say which side of the door he was on. [with a flourish foreman drops his file on house's desk.] the fact that he's dead makes it more interesting. four-year-olds do not die of berger's.
death is a consequence not a symptom. if it's not a symptom it's not relevant. [he picks up one file in each hand weighing them.]
[gets up] right save your asses.
i need to ddx a patient with you.
according to foreman they're only for ddxing people who are still alive.
bigotry is boring when we add modifiers. i don't see creed color pulse.
yeah it's much more likely that i'm taking this case because i miss showering with cro-magnons than that i actually happen to find it interesting. four-year-old kid. his kidneys died they transfused. his lungs died. he died.
what if the chicken was the egg? what if the lung involvement came first?
lupus.
if the kid had a rash or some circulation issue [he looks at his watch.] damn! [wilson looks startled.] i just realized i'm late for my anger management class.
platitudes.
and i lose my temper when someone suggests that a handful of pop-psych catch phrases can control our most seminal intractable and natural reaction to a dead child. [he turns to a man who is slumped forward in his chair elbows on his knees.] am i right emory?
they blew it didn't they? they missed your son's rash. a faint one on his cheek.
they're alive. was he sensitive to sunlight?
cold fingers and toes?
wegener's granulomatosis. i need to examine your son.
with you and your wife's consent we can get an exhumation order. find out what killed him.
you're angry because your kid died. more than that because you don't have an answer. people need answers.
at this rate i'm gonna need to pick out a plot for myself.
more like 13 minutes.
have you ever heard of the north american man/dead boy love association?
so you're taking bribes to plunder graves and i need to show respect. [milton doesn't move.] i think they got the cause of death wrong. and if i find a hole in the cartilage of his nose right about here then it means i'm right.
thank you igor.
[answering phone] you owe me a new pair of pants.
so she lost the use of her arms and her innocence. a vengeful god? [he gets the lid off the sarcophagus with a clatter.] or
[peering through the gloom at the body] i gather from the silence that chase isn't there.
nowhere he said cryptically. i assume you concur with the diagnosis.
even though there are three diagnoses? and ms and vasculitis usually get better with pregnancy.
all over? [he inserts a metal tool in the corpse's nose] i assume from the silence that chase has had a brazilian.
question is is this really about a woman? or is it about something more profound?
[shining his flashlight along drew's body] i gather from the silence that either you all agree with chase or you're just staring at his emasculated brow. in either case test for hiv and do an mri to rule out tumors. [looks at his watch] and check chase for testosterone.
boys do a home search. girls do lab tests. i'm pretty sure that's not sexist.
picking up dry cleaning. filling up the tank. violating the dead. if you don't believe me call the monitoring company.
well if i'd known i had 45 minutes of freedom i'd have gone hang gliding.
there are mees' lines on his fingernails so now i'm thinking heavy metal poisoning.
[burps loudly] sorry. vicodin repeating on me.
working on a medical case is not a parole violation. it's my job description.
never mind bride of the monster. you need to watch norma rae.
before we get started i just want to thank you all for agreeing to relocate. um i had an appointment in this part of town and i obviously didn't want to miss this meeting. but uh thank you. i'm buying. not literally. hey emory should we uh powder our noses?
hey did you know your ex-wife still lives right behind this place?
she finishes work at 4:00. picks up her new kid at 4:15. gives us about 20 minutes. i made some calls. it's amazing what people will tell you if you ask rudely enough. [points to a picnic table on the back patio] was that table here? [emory nods.] some kinds of pressure-treated wood can contain arsenic.
we don't have a choice. this is the only way you're gonna get your answer. does your ex leave a spare key anywhere?
peaceful.
made in the people's republic of lead paint.
[grabbing his backpack] let's get out of here first. we need to catch the end of our class.
rubbing alcohol vinegar. [he inspects the next bottle.] not sure what this is.
dead patients usually get a lower standard of care. pink means lead. orange means mercury. and rust means arsenic.
scotch.
how does your ex-wife do it? how come she's not angry and miserable?
shh shh shh.
[pointing at the computer] he's enlightening us.
question is why did he want that? [looks at his watch] clinic time.
mra 4 tia. rofl.
oh you're right. [leaves anyway]
i'm here to find out why you didn't care about your first kid. losing a child just breezed right through it.
didn't even squeeze out a single tear at the funeral.
you couldn't wait to squeeze out a brand-new replacement kid.
damn it.
i know. i deserved the slap. but i was hoping that you weren't capable of it. apathetic hyperthyroidism. could have kidney involvement. could be genetic. definitely causes apathy. i was hoping that your lack of emotion was a symptom of something you could have passed on to your first son.
we belong to the same club.
so i heard.
so that's why you left him?
who used to babysit drew?
his place or yours?
so he has two types of people inside of him.
mra was normal.
[to iris] i found out where your boyfriend lives. when i paid him a visit he took off. ran in front of a car.
he's down in the e.r. right now.
how do you know i'm lying? how do you know your boyfriend's okay?
he's not an idiot.
[quietly] okay.
uh y-yes sir. i yes i know i told you that i had a chiropractor's appointment but uh i got a flat. i know right? so [he reaches the porch and rings the doorbell.] you know don't send out the marines. i should be back on the road in a few minutes. okay bye. [he hangs up. a man in his 60s opens the door.] dr. james wilson county coroner. i'd like to ask you about your grandson drew lemaine.
what did he do when he was here? where did he play? what did he eat?
did you give him sidewalk chalk?
finger paints?
a sandbox?
you expecting someone?
temper trigger.
which idiot did the pregnancy test?
i grabbed park's ass. exoplanets.
we can't actually see them but we infer their existence because of the effect they have on the star they orbit.
tell all the alters that they have cancer. [walks away]
mom dad and mom's dad. the good news is made me realize that you were right. i can't drop it. but now that i accept that i feel much less conflicted. i've ruled out wegener's berger's heavy metal poison
feels like i'm missing something.
that is so fifth grade.
you're right.
that is ridiculous. you said blah blah blah blah blah deaf ears blah blah blah blah blah. absolutely essential information. [he leaves.]
i asked him to meet me here for a family reunion.
i know what killed your son.
it's called alport syndrome. it's a genetic condition characterized by kidney failure bronchial myomas mees' lines and deafness.
it's a genetic condition!
[loudly and enunciating each syllable] genetic! [ray and mickey look at each other as what house said sinks in.] your father has the gene. so do you. it's grandpa's slight deafness that gave the game away. you're apparently asymptomatic. you could still pass the gene onto your children. plural.
[gently] he has high-frequency hearing impairment. [mickey looks down at her son who has not moved.] and so did drew. that's why drew made up his own words. 'cause he couldn't hear properly. it's okay. now that we know what it is he'll need treatment but he'll live. [to ray who finally lets go of house's shirt] there are platitudes that can help you with that.
ten clinic hours.
'cause it's an anxiety attack. probably because he just turned 40 and still goes by the name tommy. (takes a bite)
probably also believes that he thinks salma hayek's breasts are too big.
because
you lied?
interesting.
what the wiliness with which foreman ruled out anxiety or his complete wiliness-less-ness before he met me?
(watching the coffee falling on his cup) pain would be restricted to one dermatome. it wouldn't cross them.
no history of asthma.
(sitting down) which is why arceus created a universe with 3 states of matter and 300 solid or liquid poisons that could cause his symptoms.
look it up. and alkalinize his urine. go search his home talk to his wife see if you can get her to tell us what she used.
because dangerous people don't break into your home they live in it. and although his kids are old enough to want daddy dead they're still to young to do anything about it.
you're right. kids might be precocious. (pointing adams) you handle his house. (pointing chase) you handle him and his wife.
if you need help you can take whoever you want.
interesting.
that was fun.
(answering his phone) don't tell me. the jealous wife in the dining room with bipyridyl herbicide.
well you obviously found something.
cool.
imperio absenti chaos regit. he's worried that too big to fail applies to our banks but not our government.
because that's what every idiot with a bunker full of assault rifles is scared of. (calling) heather sweeney. (heather sweeney stands up) uh it'll just be a couple of minutes till someone's ready to see you.
april donaldson. (she raises her hand) sorry. misspoke.
ouch.
you're gonna look pretty foolish if that was the wrong guess.
(simulating spitting tobacco and talking in a southern accent) looks like we got ourselves a good ol'-fashioned cat fight.
still there's only one way to settle this. actually there's two but we don't have enough jell-o for the first. mini-mental ct and get a hair sample to check for past cocaine use. check his tsh levels and get a sleep study. (to taub) sorry we got to make it a fair fight which means you're stuck with her.
(to a busty lady waiting in the clinic) uh excuse me miss what is your name?
huh. you don't look like a mariel. you're up. (she smiles and they walk to the clinic room. house shuts the blinds)
he's not paranoid. he's just stupid.
our patient doesn't own a gun. he owns an arsenal. and i don't own a gun.
that is actually not one of the many reasons that i don't own a gun. why would i need a gun? the only thing i own worth protecting a thief would need a crane to get out of my apartment.
everyone loves fireworks.
i'm telling the truth.
if you believe me then this issue will be resolved with no further action necessary.
it's not resolved is it?
you want to say it?
yeah. it's med-speak for she's an idiot.
so it's either not sclerosis or it's extremely aggressive sclerosis.
(to adams) now's your chance. she's leading with her chin.
no you don't. which means you're both idiots. get to work. (the team exit diagnostics but park follows house to his office)
[reaching for his vicodin. drawer shuts] does it matter?
if we hadn't gotten past that you wouldn't be here. but ability isn't always enough. just ask yngwie malmsteen.
no this is me helping me. and amusing myself at your expense. which brings us back to why do you care?
people respect you. (walks out) they just don't like you.
and yet your first thought was frostbite?
it looks absolutely nothing like frostbite.
with some difficulty.
a sign that you need to take a long vacation. at least a month.
it's silver. i'm guessing silver nitrate mixed with petroleum jelly that your boss put on the petty cash so he'd know who to have arrested for stealing it.
yeah damn. [pager beeps] it's diffused into your skin and the only way to get rid of it is to get new skin. that normally happens every 30 days. (starts walking out) so i hear that la crosse wisconsin has got the world's largest beer can. (exits)
i miss claudine.
i thought that was nadine. (leaves the patient's file on a desk)
emergency page takes precedence. (walks out)
got your page.
admit it.
after you admit it. (wilson stays quiet) you know i'm a little tired. i think i'm gonna<U+0097>
clever.
because you're paranoid about paranoia.
treat for gad. corticosteroids and iv immunoglobulin. (walks away park follows him)
they tell you that?
it makes you feel better to think that.
there's only one way to find out. actually there's two but we're still waiting for that jell-o delivery. let me know how it goes. (walks away)
you poor dumb bastard.
touch<e9>.
increase the steroid dose.
with neurological symptoms progressing this fast he's dead either way. if we increase the steroids then either death comes slower which means we were too late with the gad or death comes faster which means we were too stupid with the infection.
fine. but a shotgun is not gonna work. we need a sniper rifle. start running dna assays for sporotrichosis meningococcemia and any other boggle-winning words you can think of.
i changed my mind.
do what park says. (hangs up. wilson opens the bathroom door. he has a metal detector in his hand.)
had to kill a mouse. it was really hard with those stupid little sunglasses.
was there any money in it?
can i go to bed now? or do you want to do a cavity search? lock up on your way out.
unless he was still being poisoned.
good question.
wouldn't cause hallucinations.
get a biopsy.
i think you should get a biopsy. (walks to his office. wilson is sitting there and shows house a gun.)
that's not a gun.
and that's not a bullet.
this proves nothing because it's not a gun. it's a prop. from dorothy dietrich's magic act. look it up. she's the only woman to ever do the catch a bullet trick. i won this off her prop master in a poker game.
it's fake! it's plugged. (he takes a pencil from his desk and sticks it in the barrel. it goes about half-way.) look for yourself. (aims at wilson)
it's not dangerous because it's not a gun.
fine.
pull the trigger.
they're blanks. you pull the trigger i drool a little fake blood and then i spit out the bullet that the audience thinks i caught in my teeth. go ahead. shoot me.
all right. i'll shoot you. (he turns the gun so it points at wilson.)
it's not real. (he puts the pencil back in the barrel.) which means you didn't prove that i have a gun. which means you proved nothing. admit it. admit it.
all right what?
and it feels good.
you were wrong. don't feel too bad. we all were. his trachea wasn't swollen. it was blocked by a pseudomembrane growing across it. it means he's not paranoid he's an idiot and was poisoned. (unplugs the device from tommy's throat)
give me a machida scope. (park gets it) (to chase) hold his legs. he's not gonna like this. because you're not gonna be able to breathe. but i need to see down your barrel. (he looks through the scope down tommy's throat) good news is the poison didn't come from your wife. it came from a little bastard of a bacterium whose crap can cause chest pain respiratory distress skin ulcers the growth of pseudomembrane across the airway and in very rare cases hallucinations. (gets the scope out plugs tommy to the ventilator.) (to park) call the cdc. tell them we need antitoxin as soon as possible.
we didn't guess it because nobody gets it. instead of building bunkers you should be getting boosters. as in routine vaccines against stuff that is actually scary.
so what would your husband do on a saturday morning?
how long has your daughter had trouble breathing?
the best dads wait two or more.
or something is the number one killer of teens with no medical degree. when was the last time he took you to see a doctor?
you remember the antibiotic they gave you? is it neomycin?
sorry! hospital policy specifically prohibits me from giving meds to unrelated homeless people pretending to be father and daughter. [to the father] your pants are a size too short so either you grew a couple of inches or you grabbed the closest size in a thrift store. [to jane doe] and only you have dimples which are adorable but they're also an x-linked dominant genetic trait. which actually doesn't prove anything. the fact that you didn't burst into tears tells me that you never thought he was your dad.
since you're the brains of the operation might wanna stick around.
no so you can stop bleeding out of your ear. [she puts her hand to her right ear. there's a stream of blood from it to her jaw line.] it's usually a sign of a skull fracture. someone been using your head as a soccer ball?
much as i'd like to take your word for it i have no interest in taking your word for it. [he runs his hands over her head.] no tenderness no pain. looks like you might actually be telling the truth about something. [he gets an otoscope from the drawer and looks in her ear.] ear canal is fine. [checks her forehead with his hand] you don't have a fever. pay the man. he's late for a trashcan fire.
i have no idea.
[picks up his right leg plops it on the table and pulls up the pant leg to show his monitor-less ankle] because i can. also chris christie's blog says the pancakes here are the best. so what do we got on this 18-year-old with the ear bleed and the breathing problems?
yes she is. says so in the file.
i cut a deal with the patient. we don't call she doesn't bolt.
oh my goodness it is! [waves his hand widely] hi dean foreman! [house picks up his phone and starts taking pictures. anita heads for a table in another part of the restaurant. foreman comes over.] are you not gonna introduce us because we're married? oh no wait <U+0097> that's her.
in a restaurant that's nowhere near your home or the hospital.
sure ask her and when she refuses to tell you anything start her on ceftriaxone for pneumococcus.
then don't believe her and start her on ceftriaxone for pneumococcus.
while i'm in the little boys' room you can pretend that i'm seriously considering that idea.
pretty sure there's one in the hospital.
one of us is in the wrong time zone. and if it's me i need to talk to a stockbroker and anyone from the kennedy family in that order.
it's hardly authentic coming to a newfangled clinic especially with a yankee doctor.
yes and your sanity. i'm multitasking.
well far be it from me to come between two nut jobs and their elephant. [he gets a bottle of milk of magnesia or antacid from a cupboard and hands it to sheldon who looks at it suspiciously.] i could add some mercury if you want to make it more authentic.
so what causes an ear bleed breathing problems and our runaway's inability to run away?
not with normal posterior column function. [pumps the barrel] i've been waiting to do this for months. pull! [the team members cover their ears. someone from the range pushes a button and a clay pigeon flies from right to left in front of house. he shoots. he misses. he stares at the target as it sails away then inspects the gun.] sights seem to be off on this.
well how about the reason that there's no reason? this is working fine for me. pull! [a new target flies past as house shoots at it and misses again.] well now that one clearly took evasive action.
does anyone have a position on our patient's medical condition?
pull! [another miss] [to taub] i'd turn around and shoot you but apparently i'd miss. there's no murmurs no osler nodes.
no i have not. but all the time i had my ankle monitor on i was furious that i couldn't.
[nods] start treatment with steroids. she's lucky she'll be free to flee again.
you wanna bet? [shows her a shotgun shell] one shot one birdie. you hit you make the call. you miss never mention it again.
'cause your only other option is you call and i fire you.
she took a bet that she knew she'd win. frankly i feel violated.
[giggles] come on. poo holes.
i was giving you the gift of deniability.
[smug] no you're not.
uh my phone? oh right. yes i-i did have some pictures on that. but i also have these. [he pulls a small stack of glossy prints from his pocket and drops them on foreman's desk one at a time.] there's the two of you kissing over dinner. busting a move in a night club. is that your hand near her nether regions? thanks again for taking off the ankle bracelet.
oh of course not. there's no way someone of your integrity would let me compromise your job in any major way over some tawdry bit of gossip. but what about compromising it in a minor way? reduced clinic hours. unlimited internet porn budget. that makes much more sense than the nuclear option of ruining both our lives. you can keep these. i got copies. [leaves]
how i miss the sweet smell of stickin' it to the man.
[sniffs again] no i was wrong. it's the stench of moralizing. i'm protecting myself from meddling bureaucrats and parents.
i've always dreamed of living in an abandoned house with mold.
it's not a good thing 'cause it's not a thing.
go!
i paid mr. chips 5 bucks to take a dive.
you're on.
if you're asking him if she looks like someone who beat her kid you're a moron.
franklin rules. mr. chips drools. [to park] mr. chips's owner only feeds him on apples and bananas. nowhere near enough vitamin a. pay up. [park hands over the cash.] and do an upper endoscopy to confirm for zollinger-ellison after mommie dearest has given her permission.
doesn't matter if she beat her daughter. only matters if social services says she beat her daughter. good thing you made it all official.
you didn't need to shoot yourself. i could have given you a section 8.
it's funny how nearly shooting your toe off cured that speech impediment.
eh <U+0097> compared to who? rupert murdoch?
whereas you just dabble in crazy.
that's a very moving story. be a lot more affecting if you hadn't bonded over something so completely idiotic.
[joining them] if only it would explain why we've never seen her drunk drinking or detoxing.
mildly elevated bp could put her at risk of a berry aneurysm. weak blood vessel in the brain gets pounded on by elevated bp causes it to expand and contract. causes the symptoms to come and go.
did i mention they come and go? much as your presence may cause objects to become engorged with blood sometimes aneurysms just aren't in the mood.
why? we discussed it right here. go tell 'em she needs a cerebral angiogram to locate the aneurysm then surgery to repair.
i pay you to think inside this room. outside this room i pay you to parrot.
it's a medical choice that you turned into an extension of your baggage and hers. you told the mom something you want to believe because you don't want to believe that this girl might be doing fine parent-free. which also happens to be what the mom wants to believe.
that woman sees everything to do with her daughter through guilt-colored glasses. it's all her fault. [he exhales loudly then starts to leave.]
well it's nothing compared to how she's gonna feel when her daughter dies from the aneurysm she decided not to treat.
i save my appearances for when parents are on the brink of doing something incredibly stupid. your daughter has a berry aneurysm. she needs surgery. what she does not need is you making this or any other decision.
then leave it up to me and just leave.
she hates you. [long pause. ellen finally nods acknowledging the truth of that statement.] it's actually not such a big deal. there's plenty of kids who hate their parents. what makes it a big deal is that she should hate you. playing the biology card doesn't change anything except where she lives. your daughter is better off without you. so let her be better off without you. i'm gonna do the surgery. i'll take the fallout from social services.
morning!
not for your reasons.
i'm protecting my diagnosis.
that was to show adams that mommie dearest hadn't changed. i'm taking a principled stand against idealism.
well i hope so considering it's what we're treating her for.
i hope that i'm right but the aneurism bursts without killing her. call me a softie. [they get off the elevator.] or the mom agrees to an autopsy so i can prove it.
which one of you is the cheap bastard? [sheldon makes a huh-type grunt.] your uniforms. they're not wool. they're polyester. cheap polyester. which gets processed with a heavy metal called antimony. you wear badly processed polyester all day and night for days and nights you get antimony poisoning which caused your diarrhea and your numbness in your hands. and your collective vomiting.
brother against brother. now that is authentic.
[on speaker from the observation deck] check the ventricles.
aneurysm must have leaked instead of burst. inject the dye.
adams with me.
no hypercalcemia no elevated blood proteins.
great ideas if dengue fever or cholera laid in wait for two years before suddenly
did your biological daughter go swimming in florida? in a lake or a pond or an everglade?
family vacations kill. [he heads into the o.r.] come with me. don't want to explain this twice.
no she doesn't. your daughter has ascariasis. it's a disease caused by a parasitic worm found in feces. animals use the canal as a potty the eggs from the feces ended up in callie's intestines when she went swimming [cgi of callie's intestines] where they hung out quietly and asymptomatically biding their time till somewhere along the way they got knocked loose. maybe a dive in volleyball practice or maybe she slipped on her way into a soup kitchen. but once they hatched the worms got to work on her lungs her ear the nerves in her legs. the worms got agitated by the steroids we gave her which started them on their journey to the esophagus and ultimately to the heart. a few pills of mebendazole she'll be fine.
smart girl.
'cause i was only looking to solve the case not their lives. now i don't care if the people who work for me are screwed up. in fact i even encourage it. but absolution? you do that on your own time. [pause] or not at all. 'cause clearly you suck at it.
working late? husband have her tonight?
sure you are buddy. you just lost interest once it stopped being an affair. that's why you're relieved. but don't worry <U+0097> it's not gonna end here. you'll just have to get your adrenaline fix somewhere else. [he opens the vicodin bottle.] when that doesn't do it anymore then you'll just escalate things somehow. [swallows pills] at least that's what i've been told.
true. no limp.
yeah. who the hell are you?
cofield. [thinks] you were the residency director at hopkins before you moved to mercy which means it's safe to assume that you trained foreman. which means it's also safe to assume that he trusts you.
it's interesting that he'd pick the old mentor to judge the new one.
[interrupting] the facts are in the file. if you have trouble reading my handwriting give me a call. i'm going back to work.
the patient was a 32-year-old high school chemistry teacher. he collapsed while out jogging. he was paralyzed in all four extremities despite the fact that the scans
put out an apb for a car with a man-shaped dent in the grill?
transverse myelitis. boring.
a little poetic license. [he takes some vicodin.]
taking my vic-amins.
about a decade ago. my leg is no good at judging time.
uhh yes. [takes another] and during about nine years of previous cases. [he tosses the empty pill bottle in a trash can.] my process is proven. good things usually happen. bad things sometimes happen.
so that we can assign blame instead of recognizing that bad things sometimes happen. it was nobody's fault.
those who can do. those who can't teach. those who can't teach teach gym. those who can't move their arms or legs teach us to laugh at others.
oh come on. unless you're an idiot you know why i thought park was an idiot.
that's what i said.
no you idiot. the patient had low opening pressure on his lp. try unsquinting your eyes and reading the labs next time.
that wasn't me. the chair squeaked.
i actually used the phrasing [enunciating clearly into the recorder] unsquint your eyes.
but chase a doctor who actually takes the time to read the lab reports has a point. the guy's potassium is off. could be thyrotoxic paralysis. start him on
steroids ptu and beta blockers.
seriously? that's your follow-up? i eat a lot of cheetos i forget to wash my hands. is my snacking really relevant to this case?
you're blaming me? you used adams' shampoo.
it was a harmless prank. my team is made up of type a personalities. they need something to break the tension every once in a while.
that's also true. either way i'm covered. if you want an accurate patient history don't ever talk to the patient. everybody lies. except me. to you. would never do that.
don't forget the thumbscrews.
he had a loss of consciousness temporary paralysis but when i was told the patient coughed up blood then things really started to get interesting.
why is that bad?
[muffled] nobody move.
you can leave when i have an answer.
how do we treat chemical burns inside the lungs?
sorry. my fault. should have clarified. how do we treat chemical burns inside the lungs without killing the patient?
burn cream would drown him faster than water. [waves stink bomb] well?
me likey.
not true.
been used in sheep.
the guy was going downhill fast. we needed a treatment that was a slope changer.
it was a team-building exercise.
you say pressure i say inspire. the usual safe ideas were not gonna work. aerosolized heparin might.
i run a diagnostic trial.
start the patient on high-dose steroids. multiple birds single stone. if taub is right then he will walk out of here cured. if adams is right he'll spike a fever get hypotensive we can treat it. he can walk out of here cured. if park is right he goes all cuckoo's nest on us we can cross brain off the list
diagnose him and he can walk out of here cured.
what was making the patient worse was not having a diagnosis. this was the fastest way to get it. it was a perfect diagnostic moment.
yes. my theory accounted for all the medical outcomes. [cofield raises one eyebrow.] it did not account for the disobedience of my own team.
that's not what i said.
i don't blame either one.
my diagnostic test worked. it proved the patient had a steroid-induced psychosis.
the brain was not a symptom of an underlying disease.
how bad is it?
oxygenation's at 100%. he's as ready as he's gonna be.
what was his heart rate?
not chase. the patient.
park come with me. taub's got this.
i did listen to you. chase didn't listen to me. at this point being here makes you feel better. you're not helping chase or our patient. [she turns back to the table.] fine.
lungs rash now excessive rr variability. go.
and your thinking is that only you guys are qualified to sit in this room doing nothing? if you're motivated by caring just bear in mind he's a dedicated chemistry teacher with a pretty wife and adoring students baby on the way.
would it make a difference? 'cause i could knock her up. autonomic dysregulation.
how about warmth? can you feel the sheets on your skin?
no. [turns back] forget the nerves.
not necessarily. think arteries. blood flow to his spinal column is cut off. it's a clot in the radicular artery.
prep a room for an embolectomy. let's get that thing out of there before it does any more damage.
then you can ask foreman if hospital insurance covers ramp-vans.
patient does not have autonomic dysregulation. there's blood in his urine bag. kidneys are failing.
got to be now. foreman is transferring our guy to princeton general as soon as there's a bed available. says the doctors here can no longer be objective since the stabbing.
no.
we're going off the record because this is irrelevant or are you gonna hit me?
i didn't do anything wrong.
he's a coworker.
are you going to have me fired for bad manners?
[pulling a vicodin bottle from his pocket] could we go back on the record and get this over with?
my leg hurts.
two explosions.
hey hold on.
take him out of there.
hey!
wait. [catching up with her] wait.
your husband has a tumor in his lymph nodes.
yeah well not this time. [shot of the explosion followed by cgi of the lymph node activity.] the explosion in the classroom caused the cancer cells to break open. it's called tumor lysis syndrome. his body's flooded with an excess of phosphates potassium acids all kinds of cancerous junk. it explains the paralysis the bleeding the heart and kidney issues everything.
turns out we caused that. [the elevator arrives. she gets in.] this is treatable. okay? [he holds the elevator door open.] you have to tell the new doctors that he needs total body radiation and plasmapheresis.
where's cofield?
well i'm walking back. i'm not done testifying.
well i think we've heard enough.
well i think we've heard enough.
coward.
you've got like 20 pages of notes there. you were expecting to bore us for at least half an hour. [he stands and snatches cofield's folder] you got my parole form in here. you were gonna send me back to prison.
good things usually happen; bad things sometimes happen. the fact that that would-be widow came in just in time to sob all over your soft mushy heart and the fact that her husband's gonna live does not change whether or not i did the right thing.
how'd you get the firing wire into the vicodin bottle without me noticing?
your hair smelled like adams. and since there's no way that you're doing her without me knowing it means you were just doing her shampoo. which means you were out late drinking with some new girl or because there is no new girl you were trying to make up time by showering at the hospital because you're too lazy to buy your own shampoo. so i found a way to let you know to not be late.
what fun would that be?
they decided that your being stabbed was nobody's fault. [long pause. chase is listening.] they're wrong. i'm sorry.
no. that was it.
(seeing cindy) if she likes crippled guys i'm free for the next six minutes.
45 year-old truck driver recurrent seizures. no metabolic or structural
sort of. at least as good as the other 12 times that i've called and paged you in the last three weeks.
i'd apologize again but i'm still waiting for you to accept the first one. (he pauses) you do work for me. i am entitled to ask when you're coming back.
(entering the room with taub adams and park) is it possible that she hurt her shoulder?
(to wilson) you were cagey about where you were going. and chase being cagey in general. good chance i'd find the two of you in the same cage. so i had park follow you.
(he has picked up the patient file) patient's a nun? you turning back to your long-abandoned faith in time of trouble?
you got stabbed. you blame me.
but what did you learn about me that you hadn't known for years?
or maybe the reverse is true.
(leaning in close) your soul sister is having a fungal infection from the unprocessed wheat in the altar breads. explains the shoulder pain and the jumbo lymph nodes.
(calling out to chase) thanks for all my help.
you're probably wondering why the soda balloons?
well i'll tell you. you're not the only one whose life spiraled out of control when you got knifed in the ventricle. taub has decided
what are you planning to do now that you're not working for me?
you can do anything. so you come back to the same building you've worked in for years. guess you can cross that off your bucket list.
as soon as you admit that you're a confused mess sure.
well when you put it that way ascending colangitis.
(grabbing up another soda balloon) clinical signs can show up days before lab signs.
this is great. we should make this a regular thing.
he tried to tongue-kiss park when you were closer. you think his sexuality is normal?
let me start with an allegory.
your overreaction to your stabbing is to blame me even as you are drawn to me. taub's is to take moronic self-defense classes that won't defend him against anything.
taub has to accept that by instinct and genetics he is a coward who's better off running and hiding at the first sign of danger.
and the seventh? and the eighth? and the nth?
that unexpected things happen. by definition no class can teach you to expect them. which is why taub is idiotic to study them and you're idiotic to attach any significance to them.
(putting the paint gun down on the table) blood clot.
on the other hand
calcium channel blocker to treat. (chase takes up his crutches and leaves)
who knew mother inferior was a smoking hottie. no wonder you're playing handsies with her.
or you're terrified of intimacy which is why you're a serial slut. but right now you're grasping at an emotional life raft. ideally someone for whom intimacy's not an option. that actually makes sense which i can't say about anything else you've been doing.
twenty? thought she just got here. (pulling back chase's shirt to look at the blood on his neck) that blood looks pretty dry. cut yourself shaving? you know that can happen when the nun you woke up with coughs blood on you.
internal neck trauma that's impressive. it's happened to me a few times. (raising his hand in the air) up high.
do the surgery.
he's the better surgeon.
could mean lupus.
great thing about assigning taub fraudulent lab work is you know exactly where he's gonna end up. great thing about assigning taub obviously fraudulent lab work is you get to watch his inner paranoiac at work.
and then
two to the head.
quite a journey. starts with a surgical tool in your heart and ends with a surgeon's tool in a nun. what's the plan?
well if it's not meaningless sex kinda screams out for an end game. you're the dog that's chasing the popemobile. you sure you want
oh my god. taub is interrogating the janitor. he must think that i hired him to attack actually why didn't i do that? plaques could be confused for nodules. which would mean
explains the shoulder and foot involvement. hope you practiced immaculate contraception.
lock and load.
(loudly) boo-yah!
(sputtering as the water hits his face) pfft!
that voice in the hall that none of us have any reason to be listening to is not surprisingly wrong. abdominal ultrasound was negative.
wilson says it's not breast cancer.
yeah foreman's clearly wrong. you're clearly not grasping at straws 'cause you're clearly not emotionally involved. i know you want to believe that this is something we can cure. it's not. i'm sorry. (the team disperses leaving chase standing alone in the hallway)
i'd say giant cell arteritis. and i'd tell your former teammates to put her on steroids.
yeah. and then what? (chase hurries out)
(reading from the computer monitor) noradrenaline and near-death experiences. oh dear. you saw god?
so now you're preparing a powerpoint presentation to keep her in your garden of earthly delights. you're an idiot.
because you're an idiot. (house pops some vicodin) at least you two have that in common.
you just slept with her. your brain is exploding with oxytocin. you think that's gonna last through the ages?
so are you! she's found something she wants to build her life around. it's a total illusion but apparently she'll take a little ignorance with her bliss. and you want to take that away?
because it's the truth not because we're gonna live happily ever after.
either your relationship just blows up like every other non-magical romance or she stays with you but blames you for stripping all the meaning out of her life.
anyone can screw up a life. i never said that wasn't possible.
if i wanted you to be like me i would be urging you to make a stupid stubborn decision that blows up your life and leaves you lonely and miserable. you reassess your life when you've made mistakes. you didn't. you just got stabbed. (chase leaves)
 you said he worked in a sewer
it pains me to interrupt the collegial banter it pains me even more to listen to it continue. 38-year-old man. spikes a fever and collapses during a speaking engagement. e.r. checks out blood volume cardiac function and autonomic reflexes all normal.
the patient's philosophy makes perfect sense. its only flaw is that it's impossible. evolution does not work that way. you can't talk legs onto a fish. we're gonna go extinct and we're gonna do it drinking scotch and driving muscle cars. am i right? [he puts up both fists.] am i<U+0097> [after a long pause chase and taub reluctantly do knuckle bumps with him.] thank you.
anyone in this room in a position to disprove that?
[reluctantly] fine. [inhale] now i am hereby searching for a number two. so i'm eating a lot of bran. [fake laugh/snort] also i want a team leader. someone to fill foreman's old job.
you're right. we don't need any more structure. it's not like we had a near-fatal stabbing.
well if it isn't the old ball and ukraine.
dominika.
and you atlantic city where they also have gangs and pruno but slightly less recidivism.
you're here and i seem to remember throwing out a bunch of certified letters from immigration. i'm assuming there's a connection.
we've never taken a vacation i don't like your family and on top. i hear kiev is lovely this time of year. and your mother who may or may not be dead for all i know misses you.
well i would say more not interested than afraid but why quibble?
need my apartment key back.
maybe if you weren't all nag and no shag.
i'll get a copy made.
and that would be troubling if there was the slightest chance that we'd get caught.
this is what men do for the women they pretend to love. also she's paying me 30000 bucks once we pass. apparently knishes sell like hotcakes.
afraid you're gonna have to finish your nag later.
one of those points is not absurd.
base meaning foundational. meaning things we are biologically programmed to do. yes perfectly natural that he stopped doing that stuff. [confidentially to adams] you know that's the kind of lapse that could take you out of the running for team leader.
comes with a 50-buck-a-week raise.
you didn't. and she could be on her way to living the dream unless the rest of you nut up and give her<U+0097> [he stops and thinks.] this spiritual overhaul did it come after a physical overhaul? a major injury of some kind?
adams come with me. [to chase] you too. you guys get a copy of that made. [he gives his key to park.]
did those dudes bend your ball sack like beckham? three years ago. the bar fight.
oh dr. adams would you mind? [adams turns to the door bends over and picks up the pen. marlene glances at her. joe continues to stare at house.] i asked you a question. i assume you know the answer.
wha <U+0097> what has gotten into me? dr. chase. [chase looks suspicious.] just pick it up.
nothing that the golden girls couldn't have handled in 23 hilarious minutes. you had a hot flash. those guys kicked your guys hard enough to do lasting damage. you didn't even look when presented with two reasonably attractive tuchi. [loudly to chase and adams] yeah i said it!
people generally listen with their ears leaving their eyes free to wander. i'm guessing that your testosterone level is just below bieber. do a blood test to confirm and start hormone replacement. it's no wonder that you think women are so great. you've basically been one for the last three years.
and?
uh volodymyr oleksiy and [frustrated] aaugf.
so his hose just happens to spring a leak at the same time he's in a hospital for a totally unrelated problem. [points to chase triumphantly] fjodor.
i would if it weren't redundant. is fedir the one who married mykola?
'cause i find it hard to remember things i don't give a crap about. ergo dominika has one brother and his name is al.
way to stay on point. it's that kind of leadership that's putting you at the head of the pack.
well that's settled then. have your underlings do an lp and get a cranio-spinal mri to check for plaques associated with m.s. i will go tell foreman about your promotion.
your grandmother's kind of sexy.
is he the guy behind there once was a man from kremenchuk?
[helping] well then where will we have coffee? and by coffee i mean scotch.
i know. but there's a hot girl jumping up and down in my living room so
you brought a protractor?
[sits on the couch] looks like someone is currying favor for the team leader position.
morocco.
[hugging dominika close] so what causes double vision on top of all the other symptoms?
thyroid level was normal.
quite the display of initiative and leadership.
smooth. you let the rest of them compete tear each other to pieces then you swoop in with a save. start the patient on ivig and plasmapheresis.
well make it quick. we're doin' memphis.
i was gonna go dollywood but i'm not sure i could pull off that wig.
that was impressive. you said that whole thing without once moving your lips. [taub looks puzzled.] the ones you're not moving.
actually you won't play along with my stupid games because you're no longer a man. still clever though. studies have shown that raising kids lowers testosterone levels in men. the more involved you are the lower it gets.
fedir is the brother she worries about the most. ever since luba passed. [wilson enters.] sorry. but this is the closest we could find to the cold soulless offices of a government bureaucracy.
uh vasyl yes. oksana no. not since she kissed pavlo. 'cause that bitch knew that dominika liked him.
can we hurry this up? i have a government to defraud at noon.
though in fairness the boobs were really really helping.
it's true.
lyme disease it is. start the patient on antibiotics. now i have to get home before my fake wife gets real annoyed.
just one more thing. [he opens a box.] with this ring i thee wedded. you left it here when you skipped town with your boyfriend.
actually i tried to trade them to a hooker for unspecified favors but it turns out she doesn't accept zinc.
yeah.
welcome to our home.
uh let me see that would be august? no. no july. 'cause i remember it was right after our half-anniversary and i forgot to put a gift in her suitcase. and i've never heard the end of that one.
honey why do you do this to me? you know i'm watching my weight.
there's a simple explanation.
[on speaker phone] oh just chillin'. u.s. citizenship and immigration. waiting on my fraud interview with my wife and my attorney. [cut to uscis. house dominika and calvin ayres their attorney sit on airport-style chairs.] no big.
i know it sounds like a phone but it's a timer to remind me to pee before our meeting. [he walks into the bathroom looks and the screen and answers in a british accent.] hello old chap.
she'll be deported permanently.
tell my team to-to skip the biopsy and give the antibiotics more time.
[to ayres] way ahead of you.
[whispers to her] what you just said in there
is dance aerobics even a thing?
do it.
makes perfect sense. if you're the patient and pantywaist is the symptom.
now you're in here watching a motivational speech. even your attempt to get your balls back lacks balls.
if only there was a good reason for a professional speaker to be hoarse.
it's not a good point. it's a decent point. you're doing it again. you have any other videos? other seminars?
you bailed too early. now i get all the credit.
chronic hoarseness is a symptom of a condition called silent thyroiditis.
exactly. but you were three years ago. silent thyroiditis comes and goes. and it in turn is a symptom of polyglandular autoimmune syndrome type 3 which makes this a really bad idea. [he throws the ivermectin in the trash.] pas 3 attacks the body's own endocrine system moving from gland to gland. [cgi of joe's glands under attack.] it started in the thyroid and probably helped along by your low testosterone moved on to the gut.
this is incredibly relevant. eventually pas 3 attacked your thymus gland. you developed myasthenia gravis which landed you in here and you started eating gluten which only made things worse.
kicked in the nuts is kicked in the nuts.
over the past week you've all had good moments and bad. no one candidate has prevailed. and so now we embark upon a contest of medical strength stamina and skill.
if the competitor representing australia would like to take a point deduction he should by all means continue yapping.
can i at least light the torch?
i declare open the games of the number one number two competition. je declare ouvert<U+0097> [chase gives him a look.] all right. ready set suture!
really i'm just excited for the wheelchair race. you were smart not to enter. never in never lose. and since you no longer have stones.
deal.
honey i'm home!
kid's a blind diabetic. he's hyperglycemic hyperosmolar.
[voice] you lying sack of crap.
not you. this time. my former bff. [he looks over the balcony railing at the hospital lobby. wilson and a woman are walking in.] he's s-m-i-t-b-a-w-s. stabbing me in the back as we speak.
if anyone should happen to ask i'm in an out-of-state medical conference until further notice.
run an e.e.g. blast his brain with harmonics to find out. also if anyone should further happen to ask i spent the whole last year in africa with doctors without boundaries.
evil. [he takes a vicodin.]
[voice] because he's handicapped. women feel sorry for us. this cane is tail bait.
[voice] it's not environmental it's periodontitis.
[voice] they're laughing because they know diabetes exacerbates the condition.
[voice] like his brain. start him on broad-spectrum antibiotics and book him an appointment with a periodontist.
not in front of the kids honey. [a girl hands him a picture she drew. he studies it.] hey add a couple of flies toss in a dead goat or two we might have a winner. [she nods and takes the picture back as wilson approaches.] she gone?
okay. [he puts down the video controller stands and addresses the kids.] crayons down. line up if you wanna get paid. [the children each carrying a drawing move toward house who gives each one a dollar.] [to wilson] it's the only time i ever successfully lie to my mom; is through the elaborate preparations and props.
hey hey hey. i said no transformers slick. [he grabs the dollar bill from the boy.] [to dominika] stay here until the coast is clear.
just in case an i.n.s. guy comes in through the window.
yeah she didn't buy it either.
when i'm ready. still need to get a fake passport doctored photos maybe a case of aids.
did she say that?
sorry i didn't call first. i just flew back from my conference.
i need your medical records and the name of your primary physician.
well if i didn't i will now. [minor epiphany] you're not dying?
having sex. got it.
until i hear something that takes my mind off the jurassic schlong that i was traumatized by this afternoon.
take your glasses off. pupils dilated pulse elevated. hallucinating?
go back and find the drugs. you two find out where he bought them and then mri his brain. check for infections masses and plaques.
we'll get back to you on that.
[taking notes from his computer screen] she's not dying. she was having sex with my father. [park snorts a laugh.] ignore her. she's on acid.
not the dead dad the biological dad. the one i pointed out to you at fake father's funeral. [thomas does look a bit like sean connery if you squint.]
well now i've seen two. good news is i won't technically be a bastard much longer. we're gonna be one big crappy family.
yes that is one option. [his tone says otherwise.]
i think you know the answer to that question.
if that was true you'd have every reason to shut up. i avoid my mother because she's boring.
even if i care what she thinks why would i care what some sperm donor does?
years ago. it took three times because it was so badly written.
wilson's babysitting her. talking about the fact that she could have permanent brain damage might bum her trip out a little bit.
a clot.
i said a clot not or a clot. it's a clot. cerebral venous sinus thrombosis.
i counter your lupus with behcet's syndrome.
well if he wasn't before he would be by now. confirm with an eye exam start treatment with heparin for the clot. interferon and steroids for the behcet's.
how do you know about handling a bad acid trip? friends in your gardening club been experimenting again?
you protested the war? when?
penultimate.
if we don't do that the next clot could cause a heart attack or a stroke. park's way he at least has a shot at living. ct his lungs to confirm and up the dose.
mother guy sleeping with my mother this is dominika my wife.
james has persuaded me of the value of openness and honesty in relationships.
so she gets the couch on the odd nights and i get the bed on evens. in exchange for a federal felony she gets a green card and i get a live-in maid. [he smiles.]
i'm grateful you approve. [he hunches his shoulders slightly as he steels himself for this next one] you should also know that i was not in africa the last year.
[uninterested] uh-huh.
and is there another secret that you want to share with me?
there's nothing you think might be relevant to my life?
i don't know. just off the top of my head something like i dna-tested my dad and found that he was not my biological father <U+0097> you are.
people lie. birthmarks don't.
he's got you there mom.
so who's for dessert?
let me see that image you took last night of the clot in his lung. [taub turns a portable light box toward house and turns it on.] that's not a piece of the clot from his brain. that's the point of infection. mucormycosis. he breathed in the spores it's been growing and spreading ever since.
kid's a diabetic. he already has a compromised immune system.
treat with amphotericin b.
sorry i stopped listening after you said the dose we'll need to cure him.
what else did she tell you to say?
i never liked your friend my father.
but unlike you i did respect him.
how long are you gonna wait until you tell me?
you don't think i saw you steal thomas' fork from the restaurant?
for his dna.
see you're more me than you pretend. you had to know for sure. so you needed proof. the fact that you haven't told me can only mean
you know what that means.
that and she's not as boring as i thought she was.
no. don't do that. every time there's people in uniform in the cafeteria they get served first.
do you need me to sign for this?
patient has no hair. probably means no lice.
i think because they wanted to annoy you. any other conscientious objectors?
blowing the whistle is honorable precisely because it's not dutiful. sorry you said blowing. maybe you were going somewhere else with that.
let's treat him with not medicine.
why? you got 28. you can share.
(tossing the tic tacs onto the table) pleading guilty is not honorable. it's just stupid.
what is honor? dying for your country? getting straight as? killing your daughter because she had the audacity to get raped?
(getting up and going to the minifridge) people define honor as whatever makes them feel honorable. it's a circle going nowhere. which i guess is what circles do.
didn't need an order for his last treatment.
forge it.
shh. i'm with a patient.
sleep study.
(looking at wilson) i didn't say the study was voluntary.
what 'cause i'm sleeping in the clinic like i always do?
because i just woke up from sleeping in the clinic like i always do.
sorry. what did you say?
i didn't forget. i was sleeping in the clinic<U+0097>
for what? where's this coming from?
while having you juggle my jewels sounds interesting there's no such thing as friends with benefits. it always gets weird.
you're forfeiting? 'cause if you can't play the game and work
she's right. you're an idiot. try again.
where's that? stickford-upon-anus?
don't interrupt dr. taub.
they were clearly armed insurgents and anyone who claims or proves otherwise is a traitor. no rash or back pain.
adjectives matter. hate nurses love naughty nurses. taub pitch again.
it's your turn.
taub pitch again. now.
someone tell him he's wrong.
(plopping down on the couch) sarcoidosis it is. treat with steroids. then come right back here 'cause i'm not gonna rest until i've made orphans of all your virtual children.
oh good. taub's cured the patient.
bathroom's that way. you just ran in from that way.
i believe you. i'm gonna fix it.
speaking of which
it'd be too hard to get the prednisone concentrations right. no one fixes anything unless they have a compelling reason.
if we're gonna treat we have to give him a compelling reason something that he wants more than an interview. (loudly) fire in the hole!
cholesterol embolization.
that you pilfered my poo-poo? yeah i was thinking it would be less awkward for all of us if we could just pretend that never happened.
thank you for getting us back<U+0097>
what's the opposite of thank you? i'm pretty sure it ends in you. i know my body. i'm fine. methemoglobinemia.
the test is accurate. the diagnosis isn't. sample was obviously contaminated with other foods interacting with my liver enzymes. now could we talk about the sick patient?
and the symptoms i'm not exhibiting? jaundice ascites fetor hepaticus.
park's right. treat the patient with heparin.
blurry vision headache a bit of nausea and dizziness. i am com-pletely baffled.
hop on one foot and sing the icarly theme song. like you don't know it.
damn it man. can't you see i'm doctoring?
if you want to talk to me you can buy me a sandwich in an hour.
heard enough. just never could figure out the breathe air part. next year stick to whiskey. or at least stay away from week-old green beers. a lot less likely to contain tartrazine-laced green food dyes for which you apparently have an intolerance. once you break the seal it'll be out of your system in 48 hours.
what are my choices here? if i tell you i'm fine you won't believe me.
if i ignore you then you'll just ignore my ignoring. which is rude frankly.
if i tell you i think i'm sick and i need your help and we need to set up a time to talk about it you'll just assume i'm lying. again rude. also hurtful.
i really don't have a choice here do i?
(to the mp) i'm on the list. (referring to wilson) but he's not.
well if you're right that's not gonna be all that long.
(to the mp who is searching him) do it slow.
well considering the only people allowed in this room are your doctors and your family i'm your long-lost cousin ralph. so glad to finally meet you.
it's gonna be at least two hours until we can tell if the heparin's working.
you know my father taught me that it's dishonorable to interrupt someone when they're reading.
so was it worth it? (he puts the magazine back on the table) best case you spend the rest of your life in leavenworth. worst case you spend the rest of your life here.
they got justice? do they know that? what if only ten people had died? four?
what if they just maimed a few guys? would that have been worth it?
your hair turned gray in three days.
loss of hair color indicates an autoimmune condition likely grave's disease. hyperthyroidism leads to a hypercoagulable state which causes thrombosis. start him on antithyroids.
i want to reject our current diagnosis because i think we're wrong. and treating for wrong diagnoses can result in side effects like death.
i haven't read any journal articles proving that veterans have a higher incidence of depigmentation. of course that could be the hepatic encephalopathy talking.
so you all just want to ignore the new symptom?
(to the cashier) small soda. grave's it is. start him on antithyroids.
bold move. you've gone from speculating i'm sick to acting like i'm dead.
why don't you start by not trusting your own.
anything you have to say to me you can say to them. it's only fair. cause
well i would say that that was an incredibly stupid mistake but apparently i'd have to clear that opinion through foreman first.
taub. loyalty issues in his personal life. makes sense that they'd cross over into his professional one.
the patient's infection is an inherently less interesting puzzle than the stab wound to my back.
no. i don't mean about dengue. i have no idea. taub's only confessing because he wants us to focus on the patient.
the next person to confess is fired. or spartacus.
and then there's park. the only one who didn't confess. the same cowardice that makes someone unable to move out of mommy and daddy's home might also make someone a tattletale.
and it's malaria.
and has done for ten years. that's the equivalent of 5000 generations of the afghan mosquito anopheles gambiae. that's plenty long enough to develop a resistance. anopheles by the way is greek for useless.
(to foreman) and was i also right that it was a stupid idea?
i took st. john's wort to alter the way my liver metabolized acetaminophen. then some n-acetylcysteine just to finish it off.
i did it to save lives. god i wish i could rationalize that one.
what makes you think i haven't already?
to be continued. i need to brilliantly cure a patient.
no hair usually means no lice. what we didn't account for was that it wasn't your hair. tea was not the only thing that your afghani neighbors shared with you. i'm sure they were generous enough to let you sit on their furniture which was infested with rat lice. you have typhus. caused the vasculitis and explains all your other symptoms. but here's where it gets interesting. one of those symptoms a lawyer might argue was leaking the tape. there are psychiatric issues associated with typhus. if you change your mind plead not guilty you've got a case.
you're not doing this for honor. you're doing this to please your father. and the pathetic thing is that the man you're trying to please never existed.
traitor. you've been avoiding me for two days. 'cause when i stranded you behind the barricades you went straight to foreman.
i've been an ass my whole life i can't get rid of you.
huh. your whiny righteousness has the stench of sincerity. fine. i have to punish my whole team so that one of them will step forward.
(sighing) damn. now i'm gonna have to punish my whole team so that one of them will step forward.
yeah but i meant it this time. first time i was just testing you. either you were gonna genuinely confess or falsely confess or actually
his name's li'l chase. he's a rat. you're a rat. get it? taub confessed to telling foreman to protect the patient. adams confessed to protect taub. but your confession was just piling on. there's no rational reason for you to have done it.
if that were true why are li'l chase's li'l cousins scurrying through your apartment's floorboards right now?
capacity crowd is on its feet. five seconds on the clock. ah. how is it possible for one man to be blessed with so much skill? ahhh. [the imaginary crowd roars]
[distributing copies of the patient file] birthday present for someone in pediatric oncology. 22-year-old enforcer with hemoptysis.
no he's a superhero.
nice conclusion to which the e.r. already jumped 18 hours ago. [he shoots] short man equals bullied child.
chase ct the patient. check for sarcoid. [he tosses chase one of the hockey players from the game.] adams sputum cultures and serologies for psittacosis. taub i'd tell you why i think your theory is not just wrong but ill-conceived but it's more fun to prove it by having you check the stool for blood. and while we wait for the stool fairy i'm a man down so you want to drop your pants and hit the ice.
neighbor's baby again?
hmm.
i just said hmm.
which one of us is analyzing the word hmm here?
apology accepted. however
it's not the crying that's keeping you awake. the sound of a needy child is stirring your paternal juices.
explain the stains on your shirt. you're lactating. the fact that you're the only fruit on your family tree is getting to you.
you're not supposed to feel bad when you dodge a bullet. it's like you got survivor's guilt.
remember the falconer?
you dated two falconers? yes beth. the night the two of you split up you came around to my place wallowing in self-pity and tequila. you passed out. she called that night asked me to give you a message. she said she was pregnant which god and planned parenthood willing means you are the father of an 11-year-old. [long pause as wilson takes in this information.] i told you the next morning hypothetically. i asked you how you'd feel if beth had gotten pregnant and you said and i quote it would be the worst mistake of my life.
just as well.
[to adams] well that was incredibly unprofessional. well it was really taub's fault. [taub stops smirking] if you're not prepared to slam her into the boards she's got no reason not to go after you. might i suggest pulling her jersey over her head first?
note that the person who wants to search the home didn't sleep in one last night. you have the imprint of a seatbelt buckle in your cheek.
she hit you with a seatbelt?
all we really know for sure is it was his evil job that caused the problems.
maybe. let's take a look at the instant replay. [he turns the computer around and plays a video of szabo checking wallace.] this is the hit that precipitated booby orr's fight. dirty or clean?
absolutely. maybe she's as biased as you. or maybe the entire league is. [he hands taub a document.] after review the league disciplinary commissioner ruled the hit illegal and dangerous and suspended the player for three games. adams and taub run antibody titers for lepto. chase and park check out the home the locker room for booze steroids and taub's objectivity.
why don't we just assume that you're not the dad? [wilson takes out his phone and shows house a picture. house studies it for a moment.] either you're the dad or she cheated on you with your dad.
he's bitter not mentally handicapped. who knows what beth told him about you? at worst you're a rapist. at best you're a rapist.
raised by a lunatic mother and abandoned by his father. oh i know! squirrel handcuffs. you think he's gotten any of those?
because you were pining for a kid and you deserved to know that you already had one. but your parental cravings are more theoretical than applied. you want vicarious immortality more than you want a lifelong burden.
he's a kid. best you can hope for is he's a nightmare.
so your theory is that his aggressive behavior caused his aggressive behavior. he's not depressed. he's just bummed because he knows he's a talentless moron who's only one lost fight away from being a barista. i understand that can get to a guy after a while.
you don't want to save his life. [joining them] you want to kill his career.
yet.
why? are you trying to sleep with her? 'cause the simpler technique is just to ask.
mm no. th<U+0097> mm. no that doesn't fit.
guilt?
so it's guilt. chase convinced you to leave mommy and now he feels responsible. no mri. do a psych eval. if he doesn't start weeping again send him home.
[voice] meaning you see what you want to see. [taub turns on another monitor. house is getting the mri.] unless of course chase is an idiot and i do have brain damage.
chase? can you get me out of<U+0097> ohh hello?
the good news is it's isolated ophthalmoplegia which means you didn't have a stroke. [house replaces the eye patch.] bad news is taub was right. you're still sick. [to taub] i said right not competent. bursts your cte bubble. you're going to need a whole new theory to keep uncle jesse and his olsen twins on the bench.
so he was trash even before he was trash? you curious about what he wanted?
he was doing what he always does <U+0097> sticking up for the little guy. he told me to apologize to you or he would excrete down my throat. i'm paraphrasing. [taub looks puzzled.] so if he should ask i was a gentleman or i will excrete down your throat.
i think you're right. thus confirming my objectivity. start the treatment.
miserable yet?
which means he doesn't need you. so why don't you get out while the butterfly effect is still in the cocoon stage?
you don't make an 11-year-old dinner. you give him a jar of peanut butter.
'cause he's a gutless placater just like his dad.
this is a terrible idea.
yes. 'cause of the statement we like each other. you've known him 25 minutes. all you know about him is that he'd lie about a quinoa salad whatever the hell that is.
no target rash or cardiac involvement. [to chase] roomies with benefits keeping you up?
is that two separate events?
okay yeah. now this is interesting. we'll get back to the patient in a second. your issue is the same as wilson's except you're haunted by the pitter-patter of tiny skanks. you don't feel guilty about getting park thrown out of her home. you feel guilty about all the women that you've screwed over. my mother needs 1000 bucks for snow tires.
so it was something he ate. how innocuous. you've overcome your bias by reversing it. the only problem is that being in love with a patient is just as judgmental as being in hate. we didn't find any contaminated<U+0097>
as if to prove my point last time you said there wasn't enough time to test prior to a more dangerous treatment.
different emotion. give him the antitoxin.
every little girl wants a pony till they have to clean up after it.
the only relationship you haven't quit on has been with me.
[stares at him serious] that's not even close. this is the rest of your life. you screw this up you don't get to run away. you get to ruin both your lives. this is a bigger responsibility than any you've ever taken on and screwed up.
i am now accepting long shots.
pretty sure we can.
all of us? those who love him those who hate him those who don't give a crap about him or you<U+0097>
he's not your friend.
he never had your back. he didn't insist that i apologize to you. he asked me to take you off the case. [taub takes in this information.] biopsy his brain.
agreed. so why shouldn't i take you off all my cases?
you work for me.
pretty sure i am dickwad.
yeah i get it. there's a long list of reasons not to like you.
you little hebe. here's some ideas for you. you screwed up. you kept on screwing up. everything you said is true except it doesn't mean you walk away. you just learn to trust nothing. everything you think you feel everything you think you know. question every call play through every whistle.
you can trust light bulbs.
it was my metaphor that solved the case. put him back on plasmapheresis. he'll be fine. nice save. didn't quite make up for being a sieve the rest of the game.
ex-girlfriend's baby again?
well it's only six or seven years. unless he can't get into college in which case it's more a matter of your life expectancy.
i have an idea that can make this entire problem go away.
none of that is true.
you were regretting not having kids so i gave you one thereby rendering you regret-free. it's a priceless gift.
well it's not priceless 'cause he charges sag minimum.
can you do an australian accent?
found her on facebook.
nothing. she's still pissed at you.
pass the bacon.
nobody likes prosciutto.
35-year-old male cries blood and he's not vampire bill. go!
what her? [a red-haired voluptuous woman holds a cup and walks to house to give it to him.]
yeah my favorite companion is retiring from companning. so i'm interviewing replacements. thank you butterscotch. is that a family name? [she stands beside him and waits. in the hallway there is a lineup of similar women waiting.]
sex and work? i'm not a savage. [he takes a sip of what is in the cup. he seems surprised.] i asked for a cappuccino.
no cappuccinos got a nice stiff foam on it. this is wetter than oh almost slipped there. well thank you ms. scotch but poor foaming's a deal breaker. could you ask the next candidate to come in? [she exits. house is looking at his notes and some resumes and waits for the next one to come in.]
take a seat fawn. and tell me what's your favorite woody allen movie? [the team stares at house and the woman.]
sex is a given. they're hookers. [he takes notes.] defend your choice.
rerun the patient's blood panel and get a ct venogram of his head. let's see which one of you is right. [the team leaves and house turns to the next applicant.] how are you with small appliance repair?
this is the talent portion of the interview.
what if i'm busy? [he turns to the hooker behind him.] have you got anything else?
well since you have nothing of relevance to report i assume that you're here to toss your panties in the ring.
can you repair a blender?
uh imagine a vanilla gonzalez but from the other side.
i'm about to make a decision but there's still time for you to sneak under the wire.
if you did you'd probably talk to them more. guy loves an imaginary being who's never going to respond to him. he's no crazier than millions of churchgoers.
you do understand the irony here? every person in this room has a sex doll. at least the patient has the stones to be honest about it.
your doll is your kids. yours is your parents yours is your charity. all excuses for not being in a relationship.
you don't go looking for the right person. you just shack up with whoever's in the room and then you get surprised and/or divorced when it doesn't work out. i'm surprised you haven't asked adams out yet.
you'll bail.
can we stop trying to argue the premise and move onto figuring out why it is that you're all social morons?
you're right. that is stupid. [he gets up to leave.]
dude's banging a sex doll. a festering cesspool of bodily fluids and associated bacteria. swab her out and find out which one. [he leaves the office.]
i need you. please don't quit. you're the only hooker i know who can tune a piano. if it's about the money then i can up you to three nights a week.
no. he if he accepted who you were he would not be making you give up your career. women need their own identities their own livelihoods. otherwise why was i smoking all those virginia slims?
oh i get to play solomon. cut the doll open.
exactly. ask him for consent. if he says yes then we get to go hunting bacteria. if he says no there's no need because he's crazy and we need a different theory. see ya. gotta go build a temple.
all i need is to break up one marriage. you've broken up three of your own. you're like the stephen hawking of killing relationships. actually no stephen hawking is the stephen hawking of<U+0097>
your computer is off.
why do you assume that marriage is better than hooking? we don't know anything about the guy. he could be a serial killer.
you looking at the apartment with those or the transit of mercury?
he's an accountant. how late do you think he's going to party?
yeah.
probably. but he's not the one we're after. [he is still holding the phone to his ear but not really paying attention to it.]
oh! how rude of me not to situate you. i'm doing emily a favor. we're going to track her fianc<e9> until dominika can seduce and expose him as the lying cheater i need him to be.
oh you know the noblest gifts are the ones we give anonymously.
no neurological symptoms? i knew your bleeding heart would bring you around. too bad it's also taking you off the market. and by market i mean chase. come on buck up chase. there's always park. unless how did band practice go?
does she look like she's lying?
you're terrified of dating because a previous relationship ended because your latent rage made you vicious in arguments. or<U+0097>
interesting. taub feels confident enough to turn the spotlight on himself. it's almost as if he wants me to ask what's her name?
nice choice. since you got two families to therapize.
so it was just a one-night stand.
mazel tov. great relationships often start with snap decisions aimed at proving me wrong.
silicone deposition. that could work. start him on plasmapheresis. now turning to adams my theory is tripartite<U+0097>
want to hear my thesis? it's kind of interesting.
yeah if you want adams to hear you might want to not stand so conspicuously far away.
unexpected. i actually thought you might agree with my theory. because that would mean nothing's your fault. you fell into relationships based on proximity. of course they failed. [chase sits down at the table.] but i guess i was wrong. you picked perfect women. you just screwed it up.
adams suggests that we all sleep together and your issue is high prices?
yes i'm 99% sure that you're right but i would never forgive myself<U+0097>
i guess we don't need to ask how your dating life is going.
fibrosis fits. start the patient on steroids and find out how he pimped his ride.
because i don't know the answer. [he gets up and heads for the elevator. wilson happens to be walking by and stops to talk to house.]
can't. marriage to destroy.
okay as in passive-aggressive reverse psychology? or as in depressed resignation
expand.
contract.
so passive-aggressive reverse psychology. got it. [he enters the elevator and the doors close.]
try not to come on too strong okay? just get to know him a little. ease into it.
true. you could just walk up and stick your hand down his pants but i heard there's a middle step.
why i hope you're speaking out of some deep kind of moral relativism because<U+0097>
you're not emily's fianc<e9>e.
so let me get this straight. i'm being dumped by a hooker who's worried about my feelings?
half your clients are married. and you're a hooker.
oh my god. the marriage it's a sham. the only really thing about it is the green card she's going to get at the end of it. so if you want to get the meter running
it's not a marriage. it's a felony.
like that?
yes if by tea you mean salted tap water. and by drink you mean poured up his nose. his girlfriend didn't just leave him with a broken heart. she left him with a neti pot. it's an indian method of clearing the sinuses during allergy season. also known as now. [as house speaks we see glimpses of the past: henry is filling the pot with tap water and leaning over the sink he puts water in his nose.] the distilled water can act as a snot flushing system. with tap water it can act as an amoeba delivery system to the fluids around the brain. start him on metronidazole. if he's lucky he'll get to see his plastic children walk down the aisle. [adams leaves the room.]
so i see.
yeah i thought i'd take a break from the whole hooker thing.
i'm gonna go to bed. see you tomorrow.
i must've been in the shower. then i had to moisturize.
actually i had to moisturize twice. dominika made oysters rockefeller last night.
stress induced panic attack. tell the parents to lay off the grades. the world needs fry cooks too.
have you seen wilson around?
sunds <U+0097> sudden unexpected nocturnal death syndrome aka bs name for no one's figured out why they died. over 100 in the early '80s. only male. only hmong. healthy right up until the moment they died in their sleep.
sleep apnea wouldn't have caused breathing problems after he woke up. what did you dream of?
but you're certain that they're insignificant. defensively so.
you were defensively defending science.
okay chase and park start iv antibiotics for pneumonia. taub and adams go check the home for toxins.
right 'cause for a moment there i thought you were uncomfortable around chase because you'd had a nocturnal australian. [she looks uncomfortable. taub adams look at chase who looks at park.] you can go with whoever you want. but all of you read all of these files.
i had a dream.
relax i'm a doctor. your spectacular breasts mean nothing to me.
i had sex with dominika.
it wasn't literally sex. technically it was flossing. you know teeth testicles. i think the symbolism is pretty clear.
yeah yeah yeah kid in v-tach. tell me about the luau in his bedroom.
hasn't he heard of star-69?
how many of the other files showed malignant arrhythmias?
forget the e.p.
how many of the other files<U+0097>
[nods] do an echo to check the pericardium. see if you can find any cardioactive toxins in the home samples.
no no please. no need to apologize for your earlier behavior. [he opens a bag and drops a plastic take-out container on the desk.] floss was mint probably because of this green g-string she hangs up to dry in the bathroom.
you might want to forward your calls. you do not want the reader's digest version on this. there was a very tight hygienist's uniform suggestive use of the water sprayer<U+0097>
yeah sorry. idiot delivery guy forgot them.
you've gotten to know me pretty well.
yeah that's actually why i wanted to talk to you.
yeah.
no. [long pause. house looks away and down before reestablishing eye contact.] since we hadn't heard anything i<U+0096>i called and they said it's gonna be a couple weeks maybe a month till they finalize their decision.
yeah i know. it sucks.
and you will be. absolutely. in the meantime
have you ever shot anyone?
i've got one. dang tong lee twah. it means you're a bunch of pathetic idiots in hmong. [he turns his laptop around so they can see the screen with the computer translator on it.] or it doesn't. but you wouldn't know because none of you speak hmong. kid on the other hand is presumably fluent in gibberish.
he heard what he wanted to hear 'cause if his grandson really is possessed that means his son really is possessed which is a giant step up from being a sledgehammering psychopath.
[nods slightly] interesting.
interesting that you keep falling for it when i say interesting. the scleroderma part was idiotic <U+0097> we'd have seen skin involvement. the interesting part is that you and park agree but you're not able to look at each other.
good now lick your lips.
cha mo tie mia boo chang. it's hmong for get an mri to confirm.
apparently there are some things about you i don't know.
and you're just telling your husband now?
absence of evidence on an mri which my team has mistaken for evidence of absence.
you're a dead-eye shot and enjoy reading quantum physics on the crapper?
better image. thank you.
more likely <U+0097> and by likely i mean rationally <U+0097> it's the other way around. his brain felt the pain in his neck and created the dream to explain it.
well short answer is<U+0097>
is that right dr. park? did you wake up this morning experiencing physical changes? it's medically relevant.
sure. we could also start acting like walls don't mean anything but then we'd hurt our noses. you've been taking the high road. you haven't been teasing in an obviously teasable situation because you know it does mean something. she hates the dream because it makes her feel vulnerable. you love the dream because it makes you feel superior. the poor lass who can't help but fall sway to your charms and you're bestowing upon her the gift of illusory irrelevance.
that is so weird that you and i had the same dream. i assume yours also ends with me achieving ecstasy while simultaneously placing third in the new york city marathon.
i'm a realist. liver failure can cause gibberish from encephalopathy constipation bruising and breathing problems.
so let's hit his liver. get a biopsy.
cool. so the one thing we know for sure is he was not levitating.
so many questions starting with why did chase address his comment to someone who wasn't even in the room? hocus pocus on my feet you idiots must focus.
uh uh extreme drained
of course not. he's the lovely assistant. 'cause grandpa pig sticker is waving the wand. middling with is chase trying to avoid taub or is he trying to prove that he's not avoiding park?
tetanus wouldn't cause that kind of breathing difficulty. and ending with if chase is trying not to avoid park why is he doing this today and not yesterday?
it's a long shot but at least it has the benefit of being rational. go pump up his electrolytes and start beta-blockers. and good news for park: i think chase had a sex dream about you.
i agree. and since we're establishing a new policy of what the hell we'll try anything i'd like to hire shakira to belly dance while singing waka waka.
true. but in the long run i think you'll be happier having our lawyer declare her unfit. that way you won't be ratifying superstition over science and i'll still be working here.
you do realize it may involve animal sacrifice. [oops. foreman didn't see that one.] people who live in glass hospitals should not throw exorcisms.
i'm sorry. i should've told you.
what's the letter?
that's too bad.
i could stay.
who cares? mom's given up why shouldn't i?
all the more reason why we should shut down. we cure this kid now crazy grandpa and his magic beads get all the credit.
since when do i care about this kid? all i care about is sending mommy out into the world having faith in faith. kid's better off dead. as soon as she's done appeasing the gods let's talk.
it can't be kawasaki. echo would have shown it. but a patent ductus arteriosis<U+0097>
maybe he has. maybe he had an infected ductus which we inadvertently treated with antibiotics.
i'm just saying it's consistent.
which means there's seven people in the world who fit the diagnosis.
well maybe pda is more common than we thought. with idiot doctors like you<U+0097>
no worst-case scenario is you piss me off<U+0097>
does anyone here think my diagnosis is right? [no one moves.] well then i have decided for today only to respect your opinions. we will proceed according to your diagnosis and nothing else. that's an order. good luck.
i think i'll stick with the fluids tonight thanks.
i'm not sulking.
either religion is killing a kid or i am. [she looks at him for a moment then slides over and straddles him.] what are you doing?
i'm not gonna answer that.
i'll get it.
i'm sorry.
adams defied me. there's one more zealot in the world. [sits on the couch] and dominika moved out. she was fun. she was hot. she fixed my blender. that is not a metaphor. you know any good fake divorce lawyers? i am surprisingly depressed by this.
you were a little short with me the other day. you do need an excuse. cancer may be overplaying it.
(entering the room) is that our precious little bundle of tumor? they grow up so fast don't they?
how do you think?
actually that would have been easier. no i followed you.
i'm not here as a doctor. i'm here as a towering pillar of strength.
no. how many times have i told you i wanted to be alone and you've made yourself a pain in the ass? i owe you. my word not a word.
(mixing himself a drink) my best friend has cancer. cut me some slack. also spring break. i'm on vacation. (house puts an umbrella in his drink and settles back on the couch) although looking at you now i can tell the wet t-shirt contest is probably gonna suck.
i agree with wilson.
no i meant about the ball-less part. explains the office. (house leaves the office)
b-9.
(peeking around the pizza box lids) i sunk your battleship?
good. now that you're sufficiently buzzed what was the reason behind you freaking out on kondo? are you scared? in denial?
okay well here it is. kondo is right. you should be in radiology right now.
every day you wait our pal toomie is growing larger in your chest. if you want to live stop screwing around and do something about it.
(coming into the office) we don't have to have sex. sometimes it's nice just to cuddle and talk. me first. (he turns to face wilson who is now paying attention) you don't want a second opinion. you're already on your fifth. you got evans at mercy shaw at county foster at johns hopkins. and every one of them has given you the same advice. you're nuts. you don't just want chemo. you want a dose so high there's a one-in-three chance it'll kill you outright. question is why didn't you tell me? because you knew i'd stop you. which means you've already found someone insane enough or desperate enough to give you what amounts to a death dose of chemicals. (house wanders back behind wilson's desk) but who would be that stupid? i'm thinking that the who is you.
(holding up the bag) where exactly were you planning on killing yourself? 'cause i don't think foreman is gonna let you do it here.
statistically this treatment has about the same chance of killing you as the thymoma does. but a hell of a lot faster.
(walking toward the door) you're an idiot. and the odds say you're gonna die.
we'll do it at my place. (he leaves shutting the door behind him)
(picking up his drink) to stupidity.
(pausing) mm not quite done. to muscle aches spasms. to your joints feeling like they're being ripped out and replaced with shards of broken glass.
your stomach fills with bile. when you vomit it feels like someone's forcing a white-hot hammer down your esophagus tearing your flesh. blood's dripping down the back of your throat choking and gagging you with the slick coppery taste of burnt pennies.
if you did we wouldn't be sitting here. day two: your white blood cells are gone opening up your system to attack. your temperature skyrockets. one second your skin feels like it's on fire. the next second it's entombed in ice. every pain sensor in your body is firing at the same time until agony isn't even a word or a concept <U+0097> it's your only reality. you hallucinate. you dream of death. and then the race begins. can your body claw its way back in time before the hostile organisms and parasites claim you permanently? win you live. lose you die. (he takes a sip of his martini) now what are we doing here wilson?
promise this'll taste just as good coming up as it did going down.
if you're gonna say that you've always been secretly gay for me everyone always just kind of assumed it.
that's not gonna be an issue.
not me. i've already identified a couple of spots to dump your body if this goes south.
it does have a nice access to the lake.
muscle spasms already?
good news. takes most people two bags to get to that stage. you're way ahead of schedule.
that hasn't stopped you before.
(coming out of the kitchen) and in this scenario are your loving wife and kids holding the life support cord or are they thumbing through your will? (house stops behind the couch) i'm in it right?
you have everything you need right here. we both do.
painkiller. industrial strength. level: awesome.
we're on vacation.
not yet. it just feels that way. are you okay? i mean apart from the pain vomiting diarrhea and cramps?
here's another one. you look good.
it's down to 1000 still dropping.
we're out. you've been using my personal supply of painkillers for the last eight hours.
i've got enough stashed around here for a minyan.
just remember they're a gift. so it's rude to keep throwing them up. found that out with those candlesticks you got me.
you lost a contact?
they're called adult diapers for a reason. use it.
(trying again to help wilson up) it's okay. i'm a doctor.
(gingerly sitting down on the floor beside wilson) the universe doesn't care<U+0097>
sound advice.
you'd still have cancer.
okay your heart rate's up bp's tanking. white blood count's
i don't have the equipment or the meds to handle this.
(clearly worried) that was the deal when there was an or. you can't win this.
okay i promise.
(nodding) been fighting a cold lately. seven to ten days for the swelling to go down. then we rescan and schedule the surgery.
you talked a lot. i stopped listening after you confessed your fear of dolphins. can we just tone down the bromance a few notches? my leg is killing me.
everybody lies.
at least i don't have cancer.
staring death in the face has changed my life. what a clich<e9>.
your scan's in three days. tell me this isn't just you killing time until you find out if your cancer's gonna kill it for you.
the years have not been kind to david cassidy. [he pushes the button to call the elevator.]
or you've made sure that your patients are well-covered the car is a rental and while waiting to get julie christie's autograph you'll adopt a puppy.
interesting. cotard delusion. also known as walking corpse syndrome. disconnect in the amygdala convinces you that you're secretly dead. case solved. [he closes the file hands it to foreman and gets up to go to the coffee machine.] rendering it what's the past tense of interesting?
wilson's scan is at the end of the week. if his kick-ass chemo shrunk the tumor to an operable size he'll live. if it didn't he'll die.
other than the prayer circle what is there?
i have a dental appointment. that i'm going to make now. [he reaches for the phone.]
not worth listening to you whine about your feelings and fears for three days.
people don't change. you are a person ergo pass.
stimulant psychosis. how many times do i have to solve this case?
i'm<U+0096>i'm impressed. not by that. but by your real effort to maintain the facade. it's been almost an hour and there's been no mention of the elephant in the car.
uh-huh. in three days you're gonna find out if you live or die. you don't want to talk about it.
so we're gonna talk about it but because i want to.
you are hard-wired to talk about it. it's how you cope it's who you are.
i thought your porn name was rusty packard.
can kyle drive stick?
if we had a phone we could've found somewhere a little less charming.
this is not about you not wanting me to have a phone. you're weak. you knew that you'd backslide and spend your time talking to teary ex-wives and your parents trying to make them feel better about you being sick. [the waitress approaches them.] bacon burger with fries looks awful. i'll have that.
this place doesn't take credit cards.
come on you got this! you got this! come on! [a look at the clock: 25 seconds left for wilson to finish his meal.]
you've got this. come on home stretch kyle home stretch!
now don't chew just swallow. just muscle it down!
yes! yes! oh you magnificent bastard! [he hugs wilson.]
must be nice to be puking for the old-fashioned reasons.
shouldn't we try a twosome first?
oh.
no you don't.
kyle's only one day old. he doesn't know what he wants. i don't want to think about consequences. i don't want to think about <U+0097> i don't want to think about anything. i just want to do. [house gives him a resigned look.]
okay. i need you to do exactly what i tell you.
well that is the cost of cowardice. should've gone for the real thing.
a it is only cheating if you don't have cancer and b it's wednesday afternoon. pickings are slim and more importantly sober. the cancer cut is the surest way to the pity pooty party. [he puts a baseball cap on wilson's head. then he looks intensively at a young woman sitting at the bar.] one down one to go.
she's empathetic.
gave me a cancer rate.
you still haven't. it's my treat. it's either that or you find two very open-minded women to fall in love with you in the next hour. [wilson looks at his watch then notices the bartender.]
seems female.
my friend is dying of cancer.
he's pretty much resigned. just wants to go out with a bang. and another pun what time do you get off? [she smiles at them.]
so how was it? was the amateur as good as the pro?
never mind.
wallets go in the minibar freezer. if there's no minibar the toilet tank. i've got exactly [he counts his money.] $20 left.
no we won't. i'm still on probation. leaving the state without permission will really p.o. my p.o.
just wondering how long this can last.
i'm actually hoping you won't. i like kyle. [he puts his cap on backwards.]
whoo!
this is oubliette ohio. buses don't run here after 1968.
ina is living in alzheimersville. [he looks at his watch.] been here at least half an hour.
cab.
bus isn't coming ina. but this cab is going to naples.
we'll tell the cabbie to call the cops. they'll come pick her up take care of her.
oh god here it comes.
i swear i will jump out of this moving bus if you don't shut up.
kyle would've ditched that sad old woman from the bus stop. probably would've ditched me too. i can live without kyle. [they look at each other and give each other a small smile. no need to say anything else.] snowball? [he has a couple of them with him!]
not yet. you come here so i could talk you out of it?
it's been fun.
sounded pithier than we've shared a variety of situations.
legal loophole. 13th amendment. abraham lincoln may have looked great in that hat but his labor policies<df> [suddenly his eyes catch something on the monitor. he looks shocked.]
come on in.
(coming back to his front door) good plan. you'll be dead in five months.
with two weeks on two weeks off of chemo you'll have way more than a year maybe two or three.
i'm not gonna let you just die.
(opening the envelope) first game is october 8th. that's about one month after wilson's expiration date. this isn't an unstructured collaboration. you're trying to be the new wilson.
relax. i'm probably not gonna fall apart. (foreman leaves)
(dumping his backpack on a chair) put down the pom-poms. step away from the computer.
46-year-old oncologist refuses treatment.
wilson is dying. chase is gone. how close to normal do you think we can come?
wow. cool. i just completely forgot that my best friend is dying. wait. that just reminded me.
how can we turn wilson from a terminal idiot into an interminable pain in the ass?
my best friend is trying to kill himself.
there's no such thing.
it's a midline granuloma. get your patient a pet scan.
foreman's trying to date me. i assume that's because you called him.
you know how you can be there for me five months from now? don't be dead five months from now.
just a little picker-downer. i assume this unwanted interruption means you're looking for me to discuss the latest development in the case i don't want to discuss.
yeah. you really need me. ultrasound his abdomen to check for schizophrenia.
ultrasound his dorm.
and lo he is risen.
no. all i did was temporarily kill you. how was it?
no dreams no thoughts. you experienced nothing. now imagine that without the waking up on the couch part. just nothing times infinity.
you're saying the end is not the end? i was expecting nothing is better than something lousy but not the angels are waiting for me.
why? 'cause it doesn't make sense?
there is no heaven. there is no hell. your soul is not gonna float out of your body and join some great unifying energy force. the fact that you're dying is not gonna change that.
(from behind him) hey. saved us a table.
i recently hacked into your old files. found a six-year-old boy with bilateral retinoblastoma. doctors wanted to take his eyes out before the cancer spread to his brain and you fought them. advocated for a new photon beam radiation. saved the kid's vision. probably saved his life.
oh yeah. this is our table.
(breaking the light mood with a stern look) he's going to be a doctor instead of being dead.
i wonder (loudly to the whole cafeteria) hey! is there anybody else here who's alive today because of dr. james wilson?
i did the math. 74 children are alive today because of you. 14 grandchildren.
they're somewhere. they're giving you a standing o somewhere. they exist. you saved their lives.
(calling out as wilson leaves) its actually more impressive that they're too busy to be here.
your shoes are wet.
no you don't. 'cause i didn't do it. whatever it is. but if i had shoved those season tickets down some toilets i would have done it because you asked me to. you wanted to replace wilson. i prank wilson all the time. enjoy. (house leaves the hospital)
hi this is greg house. again. third message hopefully indicating how much i want you to call me back. i'd say that your son is dying to increase the urgency but you probably already know that. (he ends the call) the fake people who care that wilson stays alive didn't work so i need the real people who care about him to tell him what an idiot he's being.
i just got paged to go to the bathroom. i don't know where the rest of you are going.
(pocketing the pill bottle and continuing down the hall) let's assume that all his symptoms are real symptoms.
i didn't say i had to go in.
you taking me up on my offer to off you? think i've still got some leftover propofol.
he's angry because i want him to live longer. who wouldn't be?
loyalty is a tool to get people to do things they don't wanna do.
i surrender. (entering the office) i have been a disloyal disrespectful jerk. i should have listened to what you wanted.
(sitting down across from wilson) i made a reservation for two at carmine's. tonight. 8:00. no more tricks. no more manipulations.
just two friends enjoying the time they have left.
i'm not. i promise.
that depends on how much you have to drink.
well it cured her hiccups.
i didn't expect her to cry for quite so long.
(spotting the waiter as he approaches their table) now i know that the tiramisu is great here but i actually ordered off-menu.
(following wilson's lead and picking up a cookie) it was a smart bear. i'm almost certain he untied my knots.
you hiked for 32 miles eating nothing but creamy filling.
(toasting with their oreos) to climbing the hill.
don't do that to me wilson.
(carefully) i i think that's reasonable. (he takes a sip of coffee)
wha<U+0097> just because you folded that means it must be some evil plan?
that was real nostalgia. it was real emotion a real decision.
i need you okay? i want you to be around as long as possible. 'cause i don't know what i'm gonna do without you.
look at you. you don't wanna die.
well then fight.
one time.
you don't have to just accept this.
(with tears in his eyes) no. i'm not gonna tell you that unless you fight.
we got a case. assume the status is patient's getting worse. you guys are confused.
i got an airtight alibi that i'm working on.
i'm done with wilson.
it's in his hands now. get any good pictures before the mri drowned?
(motioning toward the team) come with me.
(to derrick) hey.
so what do you think's gonna happen when i stick a needle into his eardrum?
oh this is a good quiz.
don't listen to her. very small needle very steady hand.
now when i pull back on the plunger what do you think's gonna come out?
boy that air sure is red. persistent stapedial artery. it should disappear in the embryonic stage but just like his dead brother he really can't let go. an artery's been pressing against the temporal lobe of his brain right above the ear canal. it explains the voices the dizziness everything. now you guys can explain how we're gonna make him better.
(continuing to walk down the hallway) i just cured a patient. how 'bout you?
(shouting) life is pain! i wake up every morning i'm in pain. i go to work in pain. you know how many times i wanted to just give up? how many times i thought about ending it?
you here to yell at me or give me hockey tickets?
you can't wait to die?
here let me help you.
see? you wanna live!
you're resisting me because it's our human responsibility to stay alive!
(loudly) not home.
why?
no. you're the only one i listen to. the last couple of days i didn't and i almost killed my patient. so i think it's time for me to accept that you're just smarter than i am.
no. but it's better than nothing.
i'm not gonna say i love you.
you do realize that my leg situation has deteriorated a little since the last time we went hiking.
yes. i have decided not to proceed with the sexual harassment case.
gregory danger house. it's a very common name.
(standing up) why don't you tell me how many hours of picking up trash you want me to do.
(swallowing hard) and that's that's how long?
(demanding) how long?
[quietly] hey.
you're dead too.
for all i know i already am up. more interesting question is why would i hallucinate an ex-employee who i last saw with a self-inflicted gunshot wound as opposed to someone more busty? [kutner takes his gum out of his mouth and looks around.] care to explain why you're here?
i won a swimming trophy in high school. your turn.
take off your shirt. [puts down the patient file]
orbital fracture means your face went into the windshield which means your chest went into the steering wheel. painkillers can suppress heart rate so unless you want me to kill you take off your shirt let me do a heart exam.
i also wanted to see the ring of burns around your collarbone.
the codeine allergy you told the nurse about. that's shorthand for give me the strong stuff which matches your seen-better-days-because-my-life-fell-apart suit. the two old burns on your fingers mean you tend to nod off with a cigarette in your hand. no reason you shouldn't do that with one in your mouth. may all your doctors be stupid. [annoyed oliver grabs his jacket and tie preparing to leave.] hold on a second. that bruising around your belly button. [he examines the streaky purple bruise extending for several inches in each direction.] well you might get some fun drugs out of this after all.
cullen's sign. but the ultrasound showed air as well as blood. now i know what you're thinking. hemorrhagic pancreatitis. but i also know what i'm thinking. doesn't explain the pneuomoperitoneum.
i saw the chance to help someone in need and i instinctively <U+0097> oh no wait that was someone else's instinct.
did you never see dead poets society? carpe diem.
nobody cares about the medicine. it was a perforated ulcer. laparotomy to find the hole in his tummy and close it up.
which is weird because normally when i talk to my own employees i'm under oath and hooked up to a lie detector.
obviously i had a plan.
i need a meeting.
[reaching into his pocket] yes because wobbly tables don't just unwobble themselves.
i need a meeting. [foreman hangs up. house puts his cell phone back in his pocket.] thanks for fitting me in. my team has eight urgent life-or-death cases that they've been waiting for me to accept or reject.
well right now for one. but tell my parole board that i'm taking all eight that no one else can crack them; that you need me here for the next five months or eight people will die.
it's a tiny white lie. no offense. especially since from what i hear nothing black is tiny. except your penis i guess. [foreman pushes for the elevator] you really think i wanted to cave in that ceiling? it was a prank that went wrong. dock my pay sue me<U+0097>
[serious] i will go to jail eventually. i will pay the price. i just rather that wilson didn't. come on be a friend.
how many fingers am i holding up? [he puts his hand behind his back.] of course you know it's three because you know everything i know. everything my smack-addled brain can remember including that i actually said be a friend.
well here's a reason. i can't even get stoned without some annoying jerk deciding i need to be deeply analyzed. isn't this just an incredibly simple calculation? i'm going to jail losing my job losing my best friend. do i need more?
i'm also a tremendous baritone. now go away.
can i have kutner back please?
how are things in hell? is the humidity the big issue?
why?
there was a code.
five four three two
naloxone. we should've got suspicious when his visiting cousin signed in as mr. tar h. horse. heroin caused the respiratory distress. the naloxone turned off the receptors caused your distress.
you're saying i'm lying to my subconscious?
he said every one of those things.
i compressed the story a little<U+0097>
feeling better?
you were a stockbroker. son of a stockbroker. married children.
well you say you were miserable because you need to rationalize screwing it up.
but then you lost everything.
he's happy.
there's oxygen everywhere.
they weren't interesting.
yeah well i guess you'll have to tell the parole board something else. maybe that i was in the o.r. the entire day the ceiling collapsed so i couldn't have caused the plumbing problem.
not really. you were going to basically perjure yourself so that i could delay jail time. doesn't it make more sense to actually perjure yourself so that i can actually avoid jail time?
there's no risk. i know you. you'll do the honest thing. you'll lie.
he's happy.
of course i was worried. my plan fell through.
i noticed a slight twitch in his thenar eminence which meant [to oliver] you're dying.
plus the thinning in the muscle plus that speech you gave at yankee stadium saying you were the luckiest man on the face of the earth. add them up it means als.
if it makes you feel any better at this rate it'll be fast. [as oliver drops his head onto his pillow house standing on the right side of the bed continues to observe him.] you're not symmetrical.
and lo there was a miraculous wonder <U+0097> i walked across the room.
he swore that he would live a better and more selfless life in his remaining time blah blah blah. after two blahs i'd heard enough. i moved to the door.
do you smell smoke?
[to oliver] you're not symmetrical. the veins on your right side are distended.
[examining oliver's neck] there's a bulge in your superclavicular notch. there's something in there.
well i'm not that good a doctor. [pulls over an ultrasound machine and checks oliver's neck] good news: your case is fascinating. and good news for you: you're gonna live.
[voice over] you've inhaled a small branch probably while you were realizing that it's all worth it while you were passed out on a park bench. anyone else would have coughed it up but 'cause you're a junkie your cough reflex is suppressed.
[voice over] not unless you also inhaled a chunk of the sun and a drip-irrigation system you idiot. it set off an auto-immune reaction which <U+0097> i can't help saying this <U+0097> was the root of all your problems. [taub holds up a small piece of a fir branch including the needles.]
i was and now i'm not. because a moment's fun a few days ago does not trump a friend dying.
every patient that i've had 70 years from now they'll all be as dead as wilson. everybody dies. it's meaningless.
your theory is i'm not leaving because i believe in god? what he's calling me home?
no. except that some deep crack of some remote recess of some dark corner is here telling me<U+0097>
pascal's wager is facile.
you can't live your life based on something you don't believe.
foreman wouldn't help me which means i need you to take the fall.
which is you will never spend a day in jail. fresh-faced cancer-ridden. it's tough to do both but you pull it off.
i never admitted to flushing anything. my prints make sense if i gave those tickets to you as an incentive to stay alive.
all you have to do is create reasonable doubt.
that is a risk you are willing to take.
[sincerely] wilson i don't want to lose this time with you.
thanks. i knew i could count on you.
[stops mouth full] you want the fries back?
don't do this to me wilson. this is our only option.
since you're here and you are bailing me out it seems like a pretty safe assumption.
how to act when you're gone? 'cause if that's the lesson we got a really great opportunity coming up.
so that's the great wisdom you're imparting? that i'll always be alone?
[pause quietly] i thought there were two.
i always wondered why i photographed so poorly.
people don't change. consciences don't spontaneously develop.
this is a reason to die. this is what my life could've been not what it can be.
you're married. cuddy's gone.
why settle so easily? [the kiss with one of the identically clad cheerleaders surrounding him ends and he turns to the girl on the other side for a kiss.] these are just idiotic fantasies
 at odds with every logical bone in my body.
is this hell? an eternity of people trying to convince me to live?
you're the last one i thought would hate me.
and yet you think i deserve to die.
like wilson did?
i had a chance to avoid this.
no this was different.
that moment with the patient the chunk of the conversation i skipped over i told him he was dying.
if it makes you feel any better at this rate it'll be fast.
[puzzled] you don't owe me anything.
i failed. motives don't matter. only actions.
thank you. [stands and crosses to the door] and you're doing this because you're dying?
[thinking through this puzzle] so when you were living you did nothing for anyone and you didn't care. now that you're dying you're willing to help a virtual stranger. which means you're a better person dying than you ever were living and the world is a better place because i didn't save you. which makes me wonder why i'm about to tell you you're not symmetrical.
if i kept it to myself then it would just be a puzzle but i opened my mouth because i thought it was more.
you're right. but i can change.
hi.
i got out of the back of the building.
just switched the dental records.
i'm dead wilson. how do you want to spend your last five months?
cancer's boring.
