blood smear was clear and we idiots treated with broad spectrum antibiotics.
excellent deduction.
springing you was foreman's idea. i wasn't convinced until simpson failed three times.
see i knew you'd over-interpret it.
healed thank you.
(pulling out his pager) you're a changed man.
analyze it however you like. we're not friends anymore. (he leaves house standing in the hallway)
what can i do?
upping the nitro should knock it back down.
it's unlikely. especially since with the extent of the emphysema she needs a double lung.
(to vanessa) how are you doing?
the hospital brought in a consultant to work on the lungs.
he is an excellent doctor.
seems like someone's feeling better.
i haven't heard the name bobby in a long time. how's he doing these days?
bobby is an incredibly fun great guy. just not a great influence.
i was gonna leave that implied but yes colossal drunk.
(looking down) your catheter bag is empty despite taking in 200 ccs of fluids. i'm gonna have to dial back the nitro.
we don't have any choice. the nitro is dropping the blood flow to your kidneys. they're shutting down.
my patient is running out of time.
(pausing the music again) i want to be understanding. it's your first day back<U+0097>
(pausing the music yet again) house i haven't forgotten our friendship. for every good memory there's a slew of bad ones.
come in.
number three went to a baseball game the day before he donated.
he ate a bag of peanuts and peanut proteins would be. if our donor had an allergy it could explain the lungs.
what?
don't start that.
there was no repartee.
i'm not doing this for you. i'm doing it to help my patient.
(disconnecting) goodbye.
chest pain back?
we're still working on the lungs. we should know soon.
(still standing) how's the chelation going?
thanks. (he sits) lead exposure's a nice diagnosis. i hope it pays off.
i appreciate your confidence but she's not really<U+0097>
you really haven't changed. but i've given up red meat.
we're testing for iron overload.
this is not an exact process. (to vanessa) your small airways are collapsing. you're not getting enough oxygen. i'd like to try forcing an oxygen-rich slurry into your lungs. it should open up the airways and buy you some time until the lungs are ready.
it is.
yes a fair amount.
(through the door) house the nurses saw you come in.
it's a bathroom.
my patient signed a dnr. she's giving up. looks like someone else will be getting the lungs. making this yet another interaction with you in which i get nothing.
she said she's done. i spent half an hour trying to change her mind but she'd made her decision. i accepted that. it's called respect.
oh whatever it takes. thanks house. i hadn't thought of that.
(to theresa) actually it was my idea.
when vanessa was ready to quit chemo bobby's the one who got her to do one more round.
vanessa's gonna do the lung slurry. (house props himself up on his elbows and looks at wilson) you were right to push me. i needed that. thank you.
it was good advice. just came here to say thank you.
the thing is house i don't like you. (he leaves)
one two three
she can handle it.
(rubbing his fist) ah!
dinner later? i'll pick something up.
screw that. i want a steak.
i'll meet you at your place at 8:00. (he leaves)
you can't take sex from a sexaholic. you can't give booze to an alcoholic and you can't take this guy's money.
taking money from a sick person is ethically suspect at best.
we work for it.
how much?
actually the difference is pretty much a million dollars.
crap. got a patient with end stage renal disease. her heart can't support dialysis. she needs a transplant but (house is thinking looking distracted) you tuned out as soon as it stopped being about you didn't you?
i gotta go.
what's your patient's status?
[sighs] good. (starts walking back to the clinic)
your guy just signed up to donate a kidney to my patient with renal failure.
no he heard the nurses talking about her that she was short on time.
don't say that. house she really needs this kidney.
or he's doing an amazing thing for another human being.
i changed my mind.
his symptoms have gone away.
a couple dozen people a year make undirected kidney donations.
if the guy threw himself on a grenade he'd be a hero. if it saves a life who cares?
more dangerous than complete renal failure? my patient needs this. now.
perfectly logical.
you sure you wanna do this?
dr. simpson. heart rate's 140 pressure's dropping. get him adenosine stat.
she died a few hours ago.
no department. no money. and somehow you managed to con her into hanging around.
what?
the patient was faking?
you think he's allergic to iodine?
then you pumped his body full of iodine and kicked him into thyrotoxicosis.
come in.
that's because he is actually trying to get you fired.
not sure that's relevant to the equation.
not sure the amount is relevant. he's fighting for his honor.
not sure that's-
he sees competing debts with the same person as a disgrace to the game. he'll be even more motivated to beat you.
you have to give him something he values more than honor. and you should update your resume.
no you didn't. i made this bet so you'd stop actively trying to fire park so you'd be neutral. you went out of your way to help her. she obviously earned your respect passed whatever test you<U+0097>
you know that everyone on that panel hates you. you know the minute you recommend firing anyone they start discussing how big a bonus to give them.
what five grand?
i have a headache. could you just lower your voice?
you want me to pick up an ice-cream cake?
why would he do that?
they're not here.
i understand your confusion. i was eating a baby for lunch and [house looks under the desk.] i have a massive migraine. will you please just go away?
yeah. i was trying to.
if you ever hear me mention anything about wanting kids please feel free to punch me in the liver.
it's like satan's alarm clock.
that is a sign of concern.
he's got his team back. he's got his office back. he's got everything he needs.
[laughs] no no no. cuddy had a problem with house she came to me. wanted to vent me. how did that turn out? you have a problem with house deal with it or find someone else who can.
sorry about yesterday. house was like the child catcher from chitty chitty bang bang.
also he started a betting pool on which kid is yours and which isn't. [he chuckles]
i'm not the bad guy here. i'm betting on them both being yours. [taub grabs the bag from wilson and leaves.] i would have donated the money to charity.
no.
we need to talk about saturday night.
i have a chance to really watch it. a patient of mine has a pair of tickets he can't use and obviously you're under house and office arrest. i just wanted to make sure you were cool if i go to atlantic city without you.
these are ringside seats.
i'd take you if i could.
i'm going to that fight.
you realize i have to invite someone else to the rubio fight?
you have a lojack on your leg.
your biological father was a decent god-fearing minister. the guy who raised you was a cold-hearted jerk. i'm trying to figure out why you're so convinced adams has parentally inflicted damage.
now you are. you have to believe that every parent screws up every child or you were screwed out of a decent childhood.
i think you should give house permission to go to atlantic city. we'll stop by the rheumatology conference. everyone's covered.
the guy has earned the right to go to one boxing match. he's done everything you've asked funded and staffed his own department. hasn't even broken as much as a traffic law.
so you'll let him go?
he can't function under someone's thumb.
(pausing to consider foreman's statement) you're right.
house open up. i don't want to miss the opening bell.
house?
i thought you had a team for that.
you have a dead patient?
foreman will find out you're taking this case and he'll bust you. but you know that which means you want to go back to jail because it's the one place you're unable to indulge your self-destructive habits.
have you seen bride of the monster? i just got the ed wood box set.
i don't really care about the movie. i just don't want to indulge your
because this is a bad idea house.
you're an addict. and i'm an idiot for thinking that your addictions were limited to pills anti-social behavior and sarcasm.
you're also addicted to puzzles. you show all the classic behaviors. lying neglecting responsibilities and you can't stop no matter how devastating the consequences.
your job description is doing what foreman tells you to do.
we have a problem.
why do you care if he works on two cases?
you're just setting yourself up to fail.
no he's not.
he's an addict and he will put himself back in jail over a puzzle.
foreman's not gonna back down.
yes he is. just like you. if you keep being stubborn he will keep being stubborn. eventually you will screw something up. which will be bad news for both of you. but only one of you will be in prison. it just isn't worth it house.
mom or dad?
two trains are about to collide and i'm trying to talk them out of it.
no no. you don't want to listen to me then i don't want to listen to you.
[sitting up] i agree. and you know why? because i'm just as bad as you. i knew this would fall on deaf ears but i just kept talking and talking.
you don't even know what i just said.
not an irrational thought.
he saved two lives.
[sighs] your job is to keep this machine running. it's your choice to make house a useful tool or a monkey wrench. cuddy's way didn't fail because she didn't try to control house. she managed him. she knew better than anybody what a tool he could be.
well shouldn't you put yourself in that group? you own a gun.
yes you do. and you're a felon so you'll end up back in jail<U+0097>
you don't own anything you need. you own things you want. and you're definitely the type who'd want a gun. you like anything dangerous <U+0097> monster trucks motorcycles fireworks.
watching them not making them.
i stand corrected.
absolutely.
not even close.
you're an ass.
let me down.
all right i admit it. despite the fact that i know there's a gun in here i'd never find it because you are more devious<U+0097>
devious.
all right fine clever. more clever and you'll always be one step ahead of me.
(comes out of the closet running with a roll of duct tape in his hand) gotcha!
well you don't have a gun but you do have my sunglasses my tennis racket <U+0097> i can't imagine why
and my money clip.
not anymore.
admit it. (house says nothing. wilson holds up a gun.) two hours ago i found this in your closet in a box with your name on it. i knew you'd move it somewhere outside your apartment until you were certain i'd given up looking. so i had to convince you that i'd given up looking.
[laughs stands up and walks to house's desk] yes it's a paperweight with a handy storage compartment for .45-caliber bullets.
admit it. i'm more clever and more devious. you can even have it back. it's not my problem if you go back to prison. my problem is you thinking you're always one step ahead of me.
house<U+0097>
hey hey don't point that thing at me.
house house just stop it.
what the hell are you doing?
don't be insane.
i'm not shooting you.
(scared) don't. house don't. even if they are blanks people'll freak.
all right.
you win.
grr.
adams is right. you're protecting this girl.
you admire this girl. she had a horrible home life so she went out on her own. she's your road not taken.
house all i'm accusing you of is having a connection with a patient. this is a good thing.
it is a thing which she'll prove when her parents show up and you start protecting her from them.
i heard you went head-to-head with the mom.
you're protecting the girl.
and you tested her <U+0097> see if you could get her back on drugs and out of her daughter's life.
your patient's stable? well maybe adams was right. the illness is alcohol-related.
you-you hope you're wrong for the sake of the patient?
i also have kind eyes. why are you here?
of course not.
dull people get cancer too. why are you here?
well no because the interest isn't fake.
i just haven't found a way to make them interesting yet. it's all about common ground. you find one thing you both like or hate. john woo movies romance novels kale [realizes he's not getting through to taub] sometimes the best way to connect with someone is stop thinking about them and focus on yourself. wh-uhh. what is this about?
it's just a benign fat deposit. her imaging's clean.
i didn't tell him.
if you're breaking up with me can we at least talk about it first?
i don't sleep with married men.
you're an ex-con. if you get caught perjuring yourself to homeland security you'll end up back in jail.
you barely know each other. you've got about five minutes to remake yourselves into a convincing married couple. and why? dominika gets a green card. what's in this for you?
i said i think it's stupid right? then i think i'm done.
if you're not using your office i will.
wrong.
the right answer is the wrong answer. no husband would pay that much attention to his wife's friend dramas.
in-between those divorces i was married non-fraudulently for 12 years total which is 12 years longer than anyone in this room. [he sighs loudly.] move.
how can i help you?
of course they've been my neighbors about two years now. lovely couple. i see them almost every night. they seem always to be together.
cheerio.
[flustered in his normal accent] handing out menus for a new chinese place.
you need to save yourself. i was up last night trying to find another angle but i can't. tell immigration you were in love with dominika but your marriage fell apart and that's why you haven't been living together.
house i know you like dominika you have fun with her but you got caught. there's no getting out of this. the best you could hope for is that you don't go back to jail.
where's house?
he's better than i've seen him in a long time.
uh
were you in the hospital recently?
i will pass it on.
not at all.
yeah. we really need to talk.
you sleeping with her now?
oh.
you need to talk to your mother.
she's sick house.
she was wearing a hospital admission bracelet and carrying around a book on dealing with terminal cancer. [house thinks.] i'm sorry. [house dumps the children's pictures in the trash.] she's staying at the grand for the next three days.
have you seen your mother yet?
your father's dead house.
huh. are you sure? your only evidence is that birthmark you saw when you were 12.
well that's-that's great news. your mother won't be alone anymore and you can finally get to know the guy.
are you saying you're not even curious? you want to know what i think?
you avoid your mother because she's the one person whose opinion you actually care about.
that's why you've been so open and honest about prison and marrying a complete stranger.
you read the guy's book about three times.
no no!
park listen. park<U+0097>
no no no. stop it stop it! ki-ki-ki! back on the couch.
it's not what it looks like. she<U+0097> oh! [she hit him with a pillow.] she's tripping on acid.
there's no way that guy's related to you. [leaves]
8:00 sharp. [they leave. house stares at wilson totally confused about everything that's been going on.] i invited them out to dinner. told them it was your idea.
i think we should all just calm down.
i thought we already had the santa claus talk.
why would i do that?
that's that's [gives up trying to bluff] very observant of you.
he isn't your father either. i'm sorry.
your mom's a slut.
business meeting?
huh.
yeah.
just about done.
good news based on her thrifty shopping habits and taste for artificial dairy she's clearly not a gold digger. bad news based on his rhinotillexomania he is. compulsive addiction to nose-picking. a small cut on the inside of the left nostril led to an infection in the cavernous sinus.
dominika's been trying out new knish recipes. one of them didn't agree with him. a little sleep deprivation could account for his forgetfulness and inattention. he loads up on caffeine. that explains a jittery hand.
this happens all the time. one of the symptoms of working for house <U+0097> you start seeing zebras everywhere. there's nothing wrong with him.
house.
(picking up a pill bottle and reading the label) you drugged him?
(putting his hands on his hips) i think you're sick.
slow reaction time.
you're forgetful.
you forgot that we were supposed to have lunch.
i'd like to run some tests.
hepatic encephalopathy. i've watched you destroy your body with vicodin for years. i'm surprised your liver's lasted this long. i'll do the examination myself.
or i could just hover here until you're done.
i've scheduled a liver function test.
depending on the results we'll customize a treatment plan.
why is it that you can find the smallest thing wrong with anyone else but when it comes to you
no you don't.
you can't ignore me forever.
i've been avoiding you because you're an ass.
you can get rid of me now. just turn and limp away.
makes sense.
you just said that.
i could hear it through earplugs two pillows and three sleeping pills.
[exasperated] what is wrong with you?
you're trying to figure out some deeper significance to my having a couple of crappy nights.
[waves house off] fine. sorry.
mm.
the sound of a needy child at 112 decibels has stirred my inner murderer. don't mess with me.
it's not a big deal. so i'll probably never be a dad. it's<U+0096>it sucks. i'll lose a little sleep but<U+0097>
there are actually things in this world that give life even more meaning than soap operas and monster trucks. and we happen to be missing out on at least one of them.
beth?
and scene. two performances sunday dark mondays?
i called beth. i have an 11-year-old son.
oh! sand art. i used to love this.
maybe she said i was a dead war hero.
if you really wanted me to do nothing with this information then why did you give it to me?
you're assuming he's going to be a nightmare. what if he's a good kid?
house i'm not naive. i realize that this thing could go very badly but the point is my son wants to meet me. and i want to meet him.
duncan. uh james.
it's nice to meet you. um how are you doing?
good. i got you this.
go ahead.
it's got three games built in but you can download more from the website.
you already have one.
i didn't know<U+0097>
you're a bright kid.
[laughs] i think you may have gotten that from both of us.
it was nice meeting you duncan.
[laughs] absolutely.
tonight? well i-i-there's um [he looks at duncan who is trying not to look like it's important to him.] that would be great.
he's polite well-adjusted and a straight-a student.
i'm making him dinner.
it'll be fine. i could give this kid a quinoa salad and he would eat it just to be nice.
he's nice.
because we like each other?
you're jealous of an 11-year-old because you are an 11-year-old.
so tell me about yourself. i mean you're smart you're nice but what else?
right. [duncan looks at the toppings wilson has laid out.] what are you looking for?
you want peanut butter?
you like prosciutto?
no no. i-i like it too. i've got some in the fridge.
[chuckles happily] i love goat cheese.
i think that was the best pizza i ever had.
i think that was the best pizza i ever had.
do you have any aunts or uncles or grandparents?
hmmph.
yes and they're going to be very surprised and excited to meet you.
well<U+0097>
sure sure. it was uh<U+0097> i mean it was great to spend time with you and<U+0097>
i could give you crap for making me wait 11 years but instead i'm going to thank you for not making me wait another 11.
you think i'm going to quit on this? on an 11-year-old?
hmm. a needy truculent narcissist. i think it's been perfect training for parenthood.
i know. that's why i'm so excited about it.
hey.
i'm sure she means well.
but how serious is she? from my recollection she used to talk about doing a lot<U+0097>
[after a couple of false starts] well costa rica is beautiful. and the schools are supposed to be great.
then what will you do?
duncan th-this-this is very sudden.
if it's okay with your mother it's okay with me.
his mother is moving to costa rica. he asked if he could move in with me. [mirthless chuckle] and i said yes.
i said yes knowing i'm not remotely ready for that knowing he's not ready to be separated from his mother. this isn't the act of a mature rational adult. i-i can't do this house. you were right.
yes i really want to hear your clever late-term abortion joke. you were right about everything. this is life. it's real. it doesn't just go away.
duncan.
you're an actor?
get out.
[very angry] get out!
the woman that i called <U+0097> that was really beth?
how much did she charge?
i thought you liked prosciutto.
you are a horrible person.
okay. i have work to do. [he turns to his laptop and starts typing on the keyboard.]
sorry i can't hear you over my stereo.
even if that were true it would still be a toss-up.
you're a coward.
absolutely if what he's afraid of is other damsels. your last relationship failed so miserably you ended up in jail. now you're clinging to this hooker when there are about 3 billion other women out there who aren't call girls some of whom are attractive and intelligent one of whom is living in your apartment and is married to you!
hey. foosball?
okay [he heads for his office.]
okay as in i changed my mind.
oh it's morally reprehensible and bound to fail but in a weird way it's a step forward. this thing with emily.
it's real without being real. it's a long-term relationship that can't actually hurt you. it's um a stepping stone. it means you want more.
house we can talk later.
house house! [he gets house's attention and gestures to the door.]
later. [he starts to go back inside.]
in a dream?
later just changed to never.
[checking the time] my watch must have stopped. apparently it's already never.
the floss isn't sex. it's guilt. it's tying you up for throwing away the i.n.s. notification granting dominika her citizenship. [gets up] she can move out but she still doesn't know it which means you're basically holding her prisoner. tell her the truth and leave me alone.
i have cancer.
stage ii thymoma. i didn't want to tell you until i had it confirmed. i got the tests back this morning. i have cancer house. [the news sinks in.]
how did you know i was here?
foreman.
it didn't occur to you that that might mean i don't want you involved in my cancer treatment?
be a pillar in the parking lot.
realizing i'm most likely going to regret this all right.
what <U+0097> what are you doing?
i'm more interested in exactly how you plan to do that mike.
and if it hasn't shrunk enough after that i'm dead.
catching it in time would have been before it invaded the tissue around my thymus. i want the radiation and the chemo concurrently.
(getting up) i'm gonna get a second opinion.
we're done here. i'll look for a doctor with some actual balls.
hit. and i hate you. (drinking a shot of liquor) ugh. i'm done.
(he lowers both lids so he can see house) no. but i think i'm gonna puke.
i know you get confused any time someone thinks that you're wrong but it's not considered freaking out for a patient to ask for a second opinion.
well done. you've kept your word for almost (looking at his watch) two hours.
good idea. i think i'll start with spending spring break on my own.
go away. i have a headache.
my place. i've been stockpiling equipment.
no. no! stop. (trying to explain) i'm still healthy. why not go the extreme route now when there's a better chance of surviving it?
(turning back to face house) i am not going to die slowly in a hospital bed under fluorescent lighting with people stopping by to gawk and lie about how i look. even a small chance of that happening is too big a chance for me.
should i be writing any of this down?
i am an oncologist. i know<U+0097>
if things go wrong i just want you to know<U+0097>
i just want you to know that i appreciate the risk you're taking pumping a human being full of lethal chemicals in your living room. if i die it probably won't go over well with your probation officer.
i'm glad at least one of us is confident.
i've always enjoyed trinity park.
no. it's nothing really.
you'll think it's stupid.
i just always thought when i got old or sick i'd have a wife or kids to look after me.
mm.
aahh! that is nice.
how did you get in here?
where's house? where are your parents? (the boy shrugs) oh i know you. you live in the building right? what's your name?
(calling out) house.
(not looking up) it wasn't john.
(crying out in pain) i don't know. (looking up at john) i shouldn't have done this. (pausing) am i dead?
mm.
you lied. doesn't taste better coming back up.
what's the white blood cell count?
i need more morphine.
you have <U+0097> you have enough for both of us?
(he groans as he props himself up enough to drink) mm.
(not looking up) going to the little boy's room.
i did and if you think i'm gonna let you change me<U+0097>
hey! just leave me alone.
it's pathetic. i'm pathetic. an oncologist with cancer. of all the things that could be killing me it's like the universe is giving me the big middle finger.
(angrily) why me? i'm always telling my patients not to torture themselves because there's no answer.
(breathing heavily) it's cruel advice. they were just trying to make sense of what was happening to them and i'm there telling them not to bother? i should have spent my life being more like you. should have been a manipulative self-centered narcissistic ass who brought misery to everything and everyone in his life.
yeah! but at least i'd feel like i deserved it.
no.
no. win or lose. win or lose. that was the deal.
(shaking his head) no. no. i'd rather die here. (crying) not in an ambulance. not in a hospital. please you can't do that to me. i can't <U+0097> (wilson grabs a fistful of house's t-shirt. house places his hand on wilson's head) house please. promise me that you won't do that to me. promise me.
(sounding a bit better) wow. you <U+0097> you really look like crap.
i seem to recall i said some things to you<U+0097>
(sitting up on the couch) one last favor. i'd like to actually make it to the bathroom this time.
i thought you said you had plenty of vicodin.
so the way i felt you feel that what most of the time? it really does suck being you doesn't it?
i'll see you at lunch. (he heads toward his office)
yes it's mine. and yes i know that i can't drive stick. and no i don't care that i parked in a handicapped spot.
the clich<e9> is to lead a more meaningful life. i've taken a holy vow to lead a less meaningful one. i've spent my life caring giving and searching for the profound. now it's time for selfishness indifference and embracing the shallow. [he pushes a button on the car remote but activates the horn instead of locking the car. then it is the car's trunk which opens. wilson pushes it down. they both walk side by side to the elevator.]
i just paid $75000 for a ridiculously impractical car the depth of shallowness. and tomorrow i'm driving it to cleveland to meet my boyhood crush.
julie christie. dr. zhivago shampoo. i was precocious. she's opening some kind of charity animal clinic or something. i'm neglecting my patients to fulfill a silly fantasy. textbook selfishness and indifference.
i don't even care whether you believe me or not. [as the elevator doors close wilson does nothing to stop them whereas a man is running towards them to catch the ride.] indifference.
thought we'd make it a road trip. '80s music junk food beer.
ah. i'll let you drive.
it's not gonna happen. i've taken a vow.
yes that's why i brought this. [he shows him a small bottle.] 20 ccs of propofol. you can accompany me willingly or i will when you least expect it inject the contents of this vial into your bloodstream. the fall might result in a concussion or fractures or you might get lucky and simply wake up somewhere near allentown with a nasty headache. the choice is yours and in case you've forgotten i am indifferent. we leave tomorrow morning at 8:00 a.m.
my trip my itinerary. we have to cover 300 miles today to be there with plenty of time to catch julie by 4:00 tomorrow. and that thing i said about letting you drive i lied.
what?
well i declined the elephant option.
no but obviously you do.
i am neither talking about it nor talking about not talking about it.
yeah well from now on i'm not me. i'm i'm kyle calloway.
kyle is roguish carefree and shares no qualities with james wilson.
if we had a phone you'd be making calls downloading porn and playing angry birds. this trip is about me and i like this place.
i'll have the big one.
unless i finish it in an hour in which case it's free.
i'm hungry. and an iced tea please.
my meal is going to be free and i'm going to be inducted into the wall of pain. [he points at the wall where there are pictures of all the people who were able to eat the steak in the given time. there is also a digital clock showing 0:00 for now.]
ah
ah. i'm glad i did it. you see those people out there cheering for me? i was a hero. for one fleeting moment for an incredibly stupid reason for a bunch of morons
i want a threesome.
two women.
i know they're probably overrated and i'll probably be gravely disappointed but i want one anyway.
well kyle wants one.
this thing is peeling.
i feel like i'm cheating.
no. i have never paid for sex in my life.
bartender seems nice.
you didn't have to sleep out here.
apparently they left a long time ago.
it was confusing. perfunctory. a bit sad.
and exactly what i needed. [looking grateful] thank you. [house nods.] you feel like buying me breakfast? one of them stole my wallet.
i'm sorry i wasn't familiar with hooker protocol. we can use your credit cards.
doesn't matter.
we have enough gas to get to julie. i don't care about anything else. [house stares at wilson in silence.] what this time?
you're still hoping that i'm gonna wake up and admit that kyle calloway is just some lame excuse to have some naughty thrills aren't you?
oh come on.
whoo-hoo! [as he finally got in front of all the cars wilson holds his arms up in the air as a victory sign but quickly puts them back on the steering wheel.]
house. [he opens the door. house moves and looks at him.] you okay?
come on. we got 20 bucks to go 11 miles.
ina said there's a bus every 15 minutes.
you're waiting for a bus to naples? [he looks at house]
house.
then i'll stay with her until they do.
as always. all i wanted was some meaningless fun and i couldn't even last three days.
i had the chance to fulfill a lifelong dream.
but instead i sat with a sad old woman for 1 1/2 hours who forgot i existed three seconds after she left. and the stupidest thing. i never even had a crush on julie christie. [house understands he won't be able to escape the situation so he turns to look at wilson.] in 12th grade i was madly in love with melanie robbins who happened to look exactly like julie christie in dr. zhivago. and she really liked me. played spades every lunch period in mr. charlton's classroom. but of course there was this other guy. a great guy. very popular. he had a car. he had a band a mustache
why did you let him go?
i'm not doing any more chemo.
we went for a cure. it didn't work. i've thought about this a lot. five more months on this earth is reasonable. a year in the hospital in excruciating pain is not.
house i'm sorry.
no i <U+0097> did you (slurred) put something in my coffee?
(groaning) mm uhh!
(pointing to the iv pole) so now my hair's gonna fall out next week?
what <U+0097> i don't <U+0097> i wasn't dead i was unconscious.
you didn't just prove death is nothing. you proved propofol is.
i'm not having this conversation.
because i'm not gonna change your mind and i don't care. more importantly you're not gonna change mine.
(pointing to the door) please just go.
house. i have spent the last 20 years holding the hands of people as they die. when i watch that transformation i'm sorry i don't believe that we're just a bag of chemicals. (house leaves)
there are no tables.
that was my first case at ppth. mikey kimble.
wow.
i (stammering) how are you?
already? little mikey?
oh (laughing)
mikey kimble started kindergarten before the age cutoff. he would have graduated high school last year.
(to the entire cafeteria) was anybody in this room really a patient of mine?
(indicating the empty bottles) i got you three but i drank them.
it wasn't entirely unselfish. i didn't feel right approaching any of my terminal patients but what is it like?
does it ever stop being surreal?
(chuckling) you know what happened to me today? one of my patients suddenly started crying.
the first one who was crying for me.
why can't they just say something that makes me feel better?
i just can't envision spending my remaining time in a chemo suite in princeton. i want to enjoy myself with family and friends.
i'm still not letting my parents return your call.
said machiavelli.
please don't<U+0097>
just dinner?
that sounds nice.
(laughing) 79-years old and you told her she was pregnant.
(chuckling) great. (picking up a cookie) i told you you didn't hang the bear bag high enough.
well he wasn't that smart. he left the oreos behind.
the black stuff is overrated.
(thinking) okay. if i did decide to stick around a little longer<U+0097>
no i'm not i'm just <U+0097> i do feel pretty good and i maybe i should try it for a little while.
are you c-conning me? you're conning me.
well that's usually how it works with you. you drown me in nostalgia so i'll think about our friendship and feel some kind of loyalty and agree to more chemo!
a decision that i just made for you! (he sighs)
(angrily) no. no. (getting up) don't do that. i don't owe you anything. our entire relationship has been about you. my dying is about me.
(through clenched teeth) of course i don't wanna die!
(very angry) i did! i tried.
house get out of my car.
yes i do have to accept this. i have five months to live and you're making me go through this alone! (he sobs) i'm pissed because i'm dying and it's not fair. and i need i need a friend. i need to know that you're there. i need<U+0097>i need you to tell me that my life was worthwhile and i i need you to tell me that you love me.
i'm uh i'm gonna be leaving uh quite a bit earlier then we had talked about. the next day or two.
(firmly) he's not my child. i cannot be responsible for the happiness of gregory house.
okay. thank you. (he gets up to leave)
he wants me to suffer a misery that i don't want to go through.
house.
(standing in the doorway) i'm ready to start the next round of chemo.
because you need me and i don't think that's a bad thing anymore.
(shaking his head) are you really okay that there's only five months left?
um how do we start?
(entering the apartment) thank god. you got any oreos?
(pointing) and this is the peak. almost 8000 feet.
just add another day.
he'll call you twice a day. then his wife will call you twice a day to make sure she understands what he told her you told him which she won't because he didn't.
don't know don't care. working. [foreman doesn't budge. wilson rolls his eyes and turns to frankel.] excuse me.
i'm sure he's enjoying himself. last time he went to prison he maxed out his credit cards.
you think he could've done something stupid?
foreman! [foreman enters from the hallway.] house would never leave food out here rotting for days.
if we had handled this differently<U+0097>
[grabs the phone] outgoing calls. hooker me i didn't pick up. chinese place
i don't know.
anything you can tell us about his mental state or where he was headed <U+0097> anything at all<U+0097>
you're not saying anything which means he didn't specifically mention suicide but you came out here to talk to us so he must have said something that worries you.
vicodin?
the guy's address has gotta be in the file.
you do remember i'm dying right?
your fingerprints are all over those hockey tickets.
and i was so angry that you didn't respect my dying wishes i took thousands of dollars of season tickets and flushed them down toilets?
great what if i do more than that? what if i end up in jail? or spending my final months in endless hearings?
i have a reputation. i have a legacy that could<U+0097>
okay.
wait! wait.
i'm not gonna take the fall.
exactly because you overplayed your hand with foreman because you knew you had me as a backstop. even with me dying you-you just assumed i'd be here to bail you out.
hey! i won't be here soon. if i do this i'm teaching you that your bad behavior will always be rewarded. you need to learn<U+0097>
you'll just try to find someone else and it won't work and it shouldn't work!
there's only one person you can count on.
[looking a little guilty] i need to do this for you.
everybody lies. [looks around] you smell smoke?
[reading his notes] he was my friend. the thing you have to remember <U+0097> the thing you can't forget is that gregory house saved lives. [large open-handed shrug] he was a healer. and-and in the end
house was an ass. [that gets everyone's attention.] he mocked anyone <U+0097>patients co-workers his dwindling friends <U+0097> anyone who didn't measure up to his insane ideals of integrity. he claimed to be on some heroic quest for truth but the truth is he was a bitter jerk who liked making people miserable. and he proved that by dying selfishly numbed by narcotics without a thought of anyone. a betrayal of everyone who cared about him.
phone. a million times he needed me and the one time that i needed him<U+0097>[the phone rings again. a few people shift uncomfortably. nolan checks his phone to see if it's on.] oh come on. this is a funeral. just get it. [the phone rings two more times. foreman starts to take his phone from his jacket pocket. wilson realizes it's the phone in his pocket.] well this is embarrassing. could've sworn i turned this off. [mutters] this isn't my phone.
how?
the body<U+0097>
you're destroying your entire life. you can't go back from this. you'll go to jail for years. you can never be a doctor again.
when the cancer starts getting really bad
