save people's lives instead of just their noses?
here we go. he's gone from ally to enemy.
i'm glad you feel that way because i do have a favor to ask. i told house i couldn't come back until next week. he said he understood completely and that i was fired. so [he clears throat and gestures toward the door. a smiling aide wheels in a double stroller.] since i have my kids for the next two days i need a babysitter.
according to my calendar i'm a week early.
and i look forward to working with you as well.
everybody lies.
why would i? they look just like me.
it's extreme and reckless. that's house. you get used to it.
[jumps up and takes the stroller] give me my kids.
i'm not letting you dna test my kids.
it's not his heart.
could be genetic brugada syndrome.
you really like the idea or you just want to grab some hair for a dna test?
i can't! i have my kids! wilson's leaving in like minutes!
thank you.
[whispers] you're gonna get us killed.
[whispers] why would she think you're a prostitute?
how old do you think i am?
[entering] sorry. i had to drop my kids off at day care across town. what'd i miss?
quarters came in handy. my kids loved the massage bed.
you're increasing the odds of that every second we waste here.
this guy's an idiot.
i wouldn't believe it. as long as i don't hear it directly from her then i can hang on to hope that it's not true. but this way she has to either dump him or forgive him.
why is he so obsessed with my kids being my kids? [wilson doesn't say anything. taub answers himself.] because he sees insecurity and when house senses weakness he pounces and because his insecurity is the fact that other people can have faith and don't have the obsessive need for physical proof.
[not seeing the humor] an entire hospital betting on the legitimacy of my kids? it's great to be back among friends.
he means it's not lemierre's but it's still an infection which is why it's spreading so rapidly.
i'm sorry the first time i had both of you together i had to work. but daddy's boss is what we call a jackass. good. stay right there. [he picks up the second girl.] i'm also sorry for what i'm about to do because because nothing will ever change how i feel about you guys. [he puts her on the bed.] but [both babies coo] but daddy is weak and needs to know.
okay. just gonna put this right here okay?
when i left the room he was telling her about the strippers from his bachelor party.
we need to run a scratch test to find out what set it off.
everybody makes mistakes. they just don't usually broadcast all of them at the same time.
an allergic reaction.
then he's not allergic to it.
i didn't hook them up yet. after he broke out i wanted to confirm it was gluten before we dosed him.
he doesn't test positive for that either.
then he's allergic to something not on the tests. i'll keep looking here.
how else do i compare them to other genetic disorders? what's up?
just because you hung up your lab coat for more money and a bigger office?
there are a lot of good administrators out there not many good doctors.
if it was an allergic reaction the corticosteroids and epinephrine would have made him better not worse.
yes we knew what kawah meant. we just figured since it basically presents only in asian children
monkey dna nice touch.
where are the dna results? [he reaches for the folder house is holding but house jerks them out of the way.]
you manipulated me into doing it.
i love them. i don't care if one of them isn't biologically mine.
no. i'll admit i was weak for a moment but i'm not doing this. i don't care.
stop. let me see them. [house looks very pleased with himself as he gives taub the folder. taub glances at the sheets inside for a fraction of a second then feeds the folder into the shredder.] just wanted to make sure all three were inside.
so how does a completely healthy teenager have a mini-stroke?
(looking at house) it's probably from my seat belt.
(trying to ignore house) probably from the diaper bag. if the patient's using drugs cocaine could have caused an arterial spasm in his brain.
(looking around at the team) seriously? no one else wants to talk about the patient? new office furniture. meaty topic.
(giving in and explaining) it was rachel's boyfriend phil. his company's moving him back to portland. he wants me to change my visitation order so he can ask rachel and my daughter to move out west with him. things got a little heated.
the patient was punched in the groin. could have triggered a massive sympathetic discharge.
i am her daddy. she's staying here.
thank you?
so all parents screw up all children but it makes some huge difference if i keep my daughter here or let her move? (returning to the case) endocarditis. flipped a piece of vegetation into his brain which could have broken up before the angiogram.
stress wouldn't be relevant but anything that increases his adrenalin could have made it worse.
that wouldn't be related.
his late father was a circus clown.
i mentioned it because
this will calm your immune system. should be out of here within the week.
i take it it's not at a place with a big top.
you need to hang on to that.
you're 16. plenty of time to make money. wanting to build a connection with your dad and pass on some of the joy that he gave you that's not stupid at all.
ooh. i got it.
it's not normal and it's not sjogren's.
t.i.a. thickened pericardium and now he's bleeding from his nose and mouth.
what are you doing with her?
it's sophie.
she's sophie. the other one's sophia. it different enough.
i wasn't in a strong negotiating position. (to house) why is she here?
damn it. i just started back on the team. my schedule's a mess.
patient has low platelets. makes me think d.i.c.
so many children of your own. no wonder you have such insight into my relationship with my babies.
maternity ward. (park grins) shut up.
the part where he said any parent who uses day care should ship their child across the country?
shut up.
dr. park is searching the registry. transfusing his platelets will keep him healthy while we wait.
something will turn up soon.
no one in mom's family's a match and as far as she knows dad has no living relatives. it's been years since he died.
his family history of melanoma may have affected his cellular outlook.
otherwise we might not be able to find a marrow match.
how did he die?
we're doctors. your son ben is in the hospital at princeton-plainsboro. he's very sick.
there's a hospital two miles from here. it's a simple test.
his mother feels it's better to do the test at a different hospital.
(to janey) you have to go see him yourself. he wouldn't even come to the door a second time.
it's a pleural effusion.
it's a synthetic problem. his liver's not synthesizing proteins so fluid is leaking out of his blood vessels. and mom's a selfish jerk. she traded up married a lawyer wants to forget the lowly circus clown.
i'm defending the dad because he got screwed. after he lost his son he lost his job. been in and out of rehab gave up clowning. yes as a parent i empathize. i say we tell the kid.
she robbed them of 12 years together.
there are very serious risks but if we don't figure out what he has we can't treat him at all.
i may be a little out of bounds here but in case there are complications it might be a good time to come clean to your son let his father visit.
i don't know the history but everyone makes mistakes. your son worships him.
you look tired.
i thought you were gonna go to bed early last night.
you need your own place.
so go back to work at the hospital.
have you considered sub-standard day care? why don't you stay here tonight? (ruby gives him a look) no. i mean in the guest room. i'll watch the baby again and you can get a real night's sleep.
win-win. mommy gets a rest (he takes the baby from ruby) daddy gets more time with his little angel. there're some sweats in the closet in the back.
lucky girl. gets another sleepover with da-da. it makes a difference. doesn't it?
sorry. battery died.
it's not diagnostically relevant. let's let it drop.
i've been trying to persuade the mother but it's her son so it's her call.
i had sophie again last night and ruby slept in my guest room which has nothing to do with phil who will never be a father to my children.
yes it was nice having my daughter in my home. that's why i would like her sister to live near my home.
and do you think i should sacrifice myself from their lives?
that's not a symptom of burkitt's. are you saying it's
i was expecting a battery of lawyers.
(to rachel) you don't want to move to portland?
so you guys are trying to manipulate me by playing good cop/good cop?
sophia.
great. it's cute.
your mom and stepdad love you. they've given you a great home. that counts for a lot.
burkitt's lymphoma is fast-moving but not this fast.
house.
i didn't.
we tested him for syphilis. he was negative.
why is it my choice?
it's called syphilis.
i didn't tell him.
yeah. i need to talk to you and phil.
yeah. (stroking his daughter's head) i can't let you move.
i'm sorry. (he turns and walks down the hallway leaving rachel standing in the open doorway)
root canal and berger's. the first one was regarding chase. root canal if done correctly doesn't look like kidney disease.
shouldn't we be trying to maximize what we can save here? 14-year-old your freedom our asses?
that was 12 years ago. you think that's pertinent?
pissing contest with foreman.
normal complement studies. no skin lesions.
or an anaphylactoid reaction which could be triggered by certain opioids.
haven't you heard? everybody lies.
feel free to jump in at any time.
certain drugs could explain her reaction.
what kind did you have in mind?
anti-anxiety medications would explain it. if we keep her off she'll be moody but healthy. [in her room behind them iris leans away from adams and starts vomiting on the floor. taub looks.] or it's something else.
breast tenderness. have you been having regular periods iris?
i think we should run a pregnancy test.
what's the matter?
[voice] cerebral tumor.
ouch.
blood work was negative for hiv. all the money's on tumor.
no tumor either. it's not her brain.
[to iris] everything looks good.
you think she fell out of bed repeatedly?
vitamin k deficiency's a bust. fridge has more spinach and broccoli than a farmer's market. the brazilian you said it hurt a bit.
more than one and you haven't. they hurt all your bits. that's my dark secret. what's yours?
you're a tv doctor?
when's it air?
[picking up the magic 8 ball] this is what she was opening when she had her attack. will anyone believe chase is an actual doctor? [he shakes the ball and reads the bottom.] don't count on it.
love letters. [he picks up the rest of the letters. chase gets the dvds that were under them.] porn.
sweet kid.
explains the negatives of the blood disorder.
what do you want us to do?
yeah how did
the car accident?
they only come out when you're afraid or anxious. that's why house used the hurt boyfriend story.
and the pregnancy doesn't take a boyfriend just a boy. [iris sits barely moving trying to grasp all this.] you may not be aware of half the things you've done.
diazepam was masking it. taking her off made it more apparent.
when she opened the magic 8 ball that triggered a switch to a personality with a strawberry allergy.
impressive.
the fact that you managed to smear jelly on nearly every page.
asthma-induced pneumothorax would and might not show up on a posteroanterior x-ray.
he didn't realize sharing a cell also meant sharing the air?
he makes a living sending people to prison.
arceus?
must be such a pleasure to live in your head.
you need a girlfriend.
to give you the excitement you need so you don't go looking for it. you're not working for house anymore which means you no longer have him to blame if you get caught.
it's less dangerous than where you're headed. and that's from a guy with one alimony and two child support payments. (chase and taub exit the elevator)
why would they thank him?
wait. you mean literally? like not even a bottle of water?
so he was obviously afraid of something.
i don't think stockpiling weapons is the most reasoned response but given what i've seen at bloomingdale's on black friday i wouldn't say it rises to the level of mental illness.
again given what i've seen at bloomingdale's don't let house get to you.
chase respects you. he's just more comfortable working with me because he's known me longer. and i'm not just saying that because you own a gun.
if anarchy breaks out i plan to do what my ancestors have done throughout the ages <U+0097> run.
what makes you<U+0097>
so a few people are nice to you and your first thought is hmm this seems strange. i haven't even had enough time to eat my own lunch much less run around trying to recruit nurses for you. so can i get back to work? (foreman walks away)
it's for his own good.
systemic sclerosis can cause lower extremity ulcers.
we should biopsy the skin lesion and start him on enoxaparin.
i'm guessing it's a little of both. and a little of who the hell is this guy?
i can't talk now i'm a little busy.
i gotta go! (hangs up)
he was hallucinating he was being attacked by bears.
this was house's idea. he said<U+0097>
what's the problem? some cute young nurse baked you cookies?
and how exactly is that my fault?
so you don't date anyone unless i put the idea in your head. you really do need psychiatric help.
you're so happy with your life you've got nothing better to do at midnight than to come back into work to yell at me?
you're blaming the wrong guy! (chase is staring at him) good for him. married one's not a keeper but it's a start.
his trachea's blocked below the incision point. we need racemic epinephrine.
we're gonna try again. it's our only choice.
which is a good thing because neither gad nor systemic infection would cause anaphylaxis or tracheal edema.
you think it's cancer?
house pulled it out of nowhere.
you just getting in?
cool.
why'd you ask to meet us 30 miles away from the hospital?
whatever age living on the street makes her vulnerable to malnutrition drug use h.i.v. all things which could explain her symptoms.
middle ear looks completely normal. but there is thickening in the lining of the wall of the third ventricle. could be a sign of cerebral infection.
and if she says she has been vaccinated?
there are other options besides living on the streets.
i can think of easier ways to make 175 bucks a week.
an affair? never knew you were such a tramp.
she's smoking hot and it's not his job to protect her marriage.
if not for cheating i might still have a wife but i wouldn't have sophie and sophia. which means i wouldn't be preparing for their visit this week by child locking all my cabinets padding table corners and getting rid of every single magazine.
magazines go away so i won't ignore my children. i know i have to pay attention to them. i want to pay attention to them but they're just so boring.
did you learn anything at jane doe's school?
so we're back to square none?
could be endocarditis with septic emboli.
she responding to corticosteroids?
i thought for sure there'd be some yelling or profanity possible bloodletting.
i don't know how but
the sound i make is moooo! the sound i make is quack quack quack quack quack. [baby coughs. taub looks around bored and notices a magazine under the couch.] moo. [he tickles one of the girls with the cow puppet and gives it to her. he reaches for the magazine and gives his other daughter the duck puppet.] the sound is quack. quack quack. quack quack quack.
i'm an ass. on the plus side i can now program my dvr from my phone.
very helpful.
if your mom abused you social services won't let you go home with her.
uh can we help you?
we need help in here!
she didn't complain about a headache.
compromised immune system from living on the street could have made her susceptible to hpv.
it's been mildly elevated.
we booked the o.r. for an hour from now.
he's confident in the diagnosis. it's consistent with all of her symptoms.
actually it's your mom's decision.
how do you keep doing the same thing over and over with the same level of enthusiasm?
you always were.
your patients love you because you're empathetic.
but you don't love all your patients?
i'll-i'll bet some of them bore you.
but you fake an interest in them because you needed to right? and if you do it long enough it becomes real?
really? [tries again] because you realize they're not dull. it was just your misinterpretation of them.
not everything has an agenda. see ya.
what causes breathing issues bleeding issues paralysis loss of consciousness? what are we missing?
this is aaron rodgers. wow 127 quarterback rating. you know what sound he makes? grrrrr! [sophie and sophia laugh. taub smiles. he sits on the floor and opens the magazine to another page.] okay. oy! um this is terrell owens. people call him t.o. do you know what sound he makes? wah! wah! [he laughs along with the girls.] wah! wah! wah!
this is mark sanchez. do you know what sound people make about him? pffftt! [he blows a raspberry.]
[voice] pressure. i need pressure.
[voice] need an epi.
i thought the patient had a liver problem. hepatic encephalopathy explained why he passed out why he couldn't move his limbs.
we're treating you for an overactive thyroid. we think that's why you passed out and couldn't move.
excuse me but only family members are allowed.
a chemistry demonstration he was doing for his class went wrong.
because the patient was unconscious.
the wife didn't know about the explosion. and i was the one who questioned her so if there was an oversight it was mine.
no he thinks they're crucial. he just doesn't think being in the same room as the patient is crucial. house thinks avoiding patients allows him to stay as objective as possible. [pause] he's not wrong.
if only burnt lungs explained the passing out and paralysis.
aagh!
[temporarily parting the lapels of his lab coat and sticking his head up] aerosolized heparin.
i thought park and adams were both right but that their conclusions were both wrong. the neuro symptoms and the rash were both signs of an underlying disease. together with the lung it added up to wegener's.
got it.
prep the o.r. and get a gurney. start an i.v.
which artery?
bad. patch. [chase on the table isn't visible. only his open chest is.] ready?
we got to go for it.
suture. [it's passed to him.] got it.
patch is holding.
there really was nothing for him to do.
who cares if house was callous? are you gonna punish callousness?
house is not the problem.
i wouldn't have been in the room.
[long pause] we all knew a psychotic episode was one of the three possible outcomes. and chase brought a scalpel in there. he endangered dr. adams he endangered himself and he endangered the patient.
it's a hospital. there are lots of doctors who can take care of him.
you made it bud.
uh no.
house if it's total paralysis he must have
don't get too excited. we still got to get it out. still could have done permanent damage.
good to see you on your feet.
(looking up) missed me.
(looking back up at house) ha ha ha!
krav maga. which helped me block your shot and will continue to help me defend myself in a building full of drugged-up strangers.
i've already fended off six of your blitzkriegs in a row.
yah!
he was a character in the flintsteins. just hiding out till house leaves the cafeteria.
not as much as house's surprise attacks. he thinks three steps ahead so i do too. which is why you should accept his apology and come back on the team. he's annoying he's maddening but he makes us all better.
pulse?
you slept with a nun?
he's also slept with her far fewer times than you have.
you're not gonna put her on bypass?
you're not gonna close the wound first?
(calmly) boo-yah to you too.
trousseau's syndrome could send clots cause the ischemic foot. add the enlarged lymph node macrocytosis.
negative chest x-rays aren't.
he tried but
you shoulda seen it. it was perfect.
abscess?
not with this fever. maybe we're thinking about this the wrong way. retro-ocular infection?
you want?
he could have a pulmonary embolism. clot in his lung increases right ventricular afterload drops the blood flow to his brain. we should do a pulmonary angiogram.
[nods] less invasive than the angiogram. good idea.
how long you been doing seminars?
i'm guessing that explains the broken wrist in your medical history?
we'll need to know exactly how you changed your diet and when.
[entering] lab results.
d-dimer came back normal. rules out pulmonary embolism.
bar fight. but there's no way a broken wrist explains<U+0097>
tests confirm house is right. low testosterone explains all your symptoms. they should go away with replacement therapy. uh we're gonna give you a fairly high dose. over time your personal physician may reduce it a little. [picks up syringe] just need you to turn around.
with these injections you will see an increase in sex drive.
okay.
all done.
[guiding joe to a seat] it couldn't be. i don't think you're going home just yet.
if low testosterone means i can't get sick with something else then punch me in the junk right now.
house is a dictator. second in command is a meaningless position.
this is what house wants. wind us up and watch us fight over an empty title which would make us extra stupid because of what we've just been through. we should let him choose whoever he wants and move on.
proteins may indicate m.s. there's no one definitive test. that's why dr. house ordered an mri as well.
it's certainly worth trying. [to joe] deep breath. stay very still.
some male lizards do push-ups to attract mates. when scientists gave them extra testosterone they did push-ups until they died. same drive you took advantage of to get chase to carry a box of files down to your car yesterday.
i'm saying it's pointless to try<U+0097>
[changing the subject] brain stem and cord are clean.
thyroid eye disease in conjunction with graves.
what happened to not letting house get to you? you're like lemmings marching off the cliff of competitive humiliation.
at the risk of derailing this very productive photo shoot and bickering session what about myasthenia gravis? extra-ocular muscle weakness leads to double vision atonic bladder leads to incontinence. could've been triggered when his t got really low.
can you handle that please? i need a minute.
you think you want this but it's a bad idea.
everybody was playing nice and in your world nice doesn't solve cases but after what happened a little bonding is a good thing. [house takes a vicodin.] we still have ideas we still argue. maybe it could work better if we appreciate each other.
oh. i get it. i won't play along with your stupid games so i'm no longer a man. clever.
right. having kids has neutered me. or maybe it's helped me finally grow up.
i still think it's myasthenia gravis.
but his vision got better.
that would've kicked the celiac into gear causing the liver problems.
the patient's shown zero improvement.
or because he doesn't have lyme disease. where are you?
i still think it's myasthenia gravis plus celiac. his change in diet has to be significant.
you do remember chase got stabbed doing a test house didn't order?
you only did this to score points over chase and park.
patient's having trouble breathing.
his breathing is stabilized but his lung function is at 60% and his liver is tanking.
doesn't explain the incontinence. intestinal lymphoma?
treatment is ivermectin. we give that to someone with liver problems he could have seizures or worse.
i was wondering if maybe we overlooked a symptom or something.
adams and i both thought the patient could have celiac but only she was willing to go out on a limb and run the test. i gave up.
his voice <U+0097> it's lower than it is now.
good point. [turns off the video]
a couple.
where it caused celiac disease or it would've if you weren't on a gluten-free diet. i was right.
we'll treat the various conditions with high-dose steroids. assuming they respond you should be fine.
t time.
are you having side effects?
low testosterone can cause depression and problems sleeping. it's also been linked to conditions such as osteoporosis and diabetes. it'll make your life harder and more dangerous on top of all the meds you'll be taking.
well this certainly has brought more structure to the department.
i'll split the 50 a week with you.
his tox screens were clean.
i have them right in front of me.
they did a psych consult. mental status is normal.
uh he's at an out-of-state medical conference. in baltimore i think.
have you seen his girlfriend? extremely hot.
not my point. he actually convinced her to go for the whole relationship break thing.
because she's back with him. women suggest a break when they wanna break up. men do it because they wanna have sex with other women before they settle down.
i was their age when i did. [she gives him a look.] i see your point.
it's not a seizure. he's not spiking on his e.e.g.
he's not moving air. i think he's choking on something.
help me move him.
three teeth detached from his jawbone and lodged in his throat. he almost choked to death on them.
then he wouldn't be the only one. he's an accountant who works on the same floor with 50 other people.
it could progress to a systemic disease. the bacteria spread and affect other organs.
and i'll spare you the lecture you'll get from the periodontist tomorrow but you need to practice better oral hygiene.
why not?
wow.
we're here. we might as well search the place in case we're wrong about periodontitis. [park goes to the kitchen. taub follows.] what are you doing?
you're stealing food from a blind man?
i take it from your low self-esteem theory you have some experience with relationship breaks? [she gives him a look.] what happened?
then why agree to a break?
no one's is.
i'll check the bathroom. you keep checking the snacks
the kid's diabetic. the periodontitis could be real but completely unrelated.
his tox screens were clean.
[surprised] we didn't find any drugs.
she ate ice cream and gummi bears at the patient's apartment. one of 'em must have been dosed with it.
it fits. when it was smaller it caused his initial disorientation and hallucinations. as it grew larger the seizures.
no he doesn't have any of the earlier symptoms <U+0097> color blindness abnormal visual fields or<U+0097> we've been ignoring his eyes because he's blind.
i'm going to need to discuss that with my colleagues.
he's stabilized for the moment.
except our treatment should make him better not worse.
she's young and hot. she'll bounce back.
no it couldn't. no evidence of viral markers in the necrotized tissue.
and you got very defensive when house took your birth control.
you're right. i'm thinking either massive brain tumor or his soap got canceled and he's distracted.
no pain when he swallows.
ruptured triple-a.
we'll ultrasound his belly and look for the obstruction.
pressure's dropping.
bp's 70 over 40 and he's hypovolemic.
and he's starting to clot.
no i don't.
extramedullary hematopoiesis.
where i come from this is called cheating.
tb.
brucellosis. (to house about the game they are playing) you just took out a family of four.
i've pitched like five<U+0097>
lymphoma.
(referring to the game) yes!
(talking fast) the nodules in his spleen were granulomas. he's got sarcoidosis!
(loudly) say bye-bye house.
(jumping up jubilantly) yes! yes!
seriously? me beating house is medically significant?
no we don't. first of all because i can beat him in that game. and second even if you are right there's no reason to believe that house's medical judgment is impaired.
without this injection you could have a fatal arrhythmia.
the people who think you're a traitor will still think you're a traitor and the people who think you're a hero will still think you're a hero.
the conspiracy theorists are gonna go nuts if the patient dies.
you explain to your brother that he overplayed his hand.
if a decorated military officer who happened to be the patient's brother corroborates they might.
i want you to save his life. his heart could go at any time.
i had to go to the bathroom.
that one's been out of order for two days. i had to go up to the third floor.
i'm not lying. it's out of order.
but the only way you'll live long enough to get the truth is by accepting treatment.
he's getting the truth. most he could hope for. i need to take a dump. specifically house's dump.
all it took was showing up two minutes late and a $2.00 sign. (he turns away from the microscope) bile deposits are irregular. house's liver is failing.
what's going on?
we can't tell if your breath stinks because you've been popping mints like they're vicodin.
foreman's business is to make sure his doctors are able to do their jobs that lives aren't put at risk.
even if he did full go gray stress seems way more likely than grave's.
we acted like we don't trust your judgment because we don't trust your judgment.
fine. i told foreman. can we move on now? what about dengue?
we believe you have malaria. these pills<U+0097>
of course not. we'll get the paperwork drawn up.
(raising his hand in the air) his brother's dying. he needs a more substantial reason?
apparently.
we don't need you to. the army gave the file to you yesterday. major mathewson had another copy sent over to us.
i know. i read it. i'm gonna treat my patient now.
can i begin treatment?
fever hasn't broken. white count is still up. renal function is declining.
he couldn't have faked it. we tested your<U+0097>
i had one just like this except it was bruins and the habs. where did you get it?
he's coughing up blood because he probably broke a rib and punctured a lung while breaking someone else's rib and puncturing their lung in the name of sport.
i was average height as a kid and never bullied.
fighting has nothing to do with hockey. it's like the cheerleaders at a basketball game.
he had three teeth knocked out two weeks ago. infection could've led to oral bleeding.
then he took an elbow to the gut which caused an esophageal tear.
and visits to the e.r. not counting the ones you've caused.
i am. that's the point. fighting cheapens a great sport.
they're self-inflicted?
deep vein thrombosis caused by any one of his many injuries or surgeries.
we have a guy who is punishing his body on a daily basis. don't you think that's a more likely cause than cancer?
more likely it's just a dvt.
that's a good fit if you ignore the fact that he's a pro athlete who looks like the incredible hulk which means he's gotta be on steroids which is a better fit.
yes i don't like him. doesn't mean my judgment's affected.
the hit was clean.
we have a difference of opinion. that's all.
bobby?
i found him crying in the fetal position.
aside from the guy in the book depository the kennedys had a lovely trip to dallas. repetitive blows to the head can cause chronic traumatic encephalopathy symptoms of which are aggressive behavior and depression.
if he quits being an enforcer it could save his life.
but an mri of his brain could reveal white matter disintegrity which is the effect of cte.
according to your psych eval the only thing happier than you is disneyland.
depression could be the symptom of a serious illness. cte.
and you know it could kill you.
you might be right. and an mri could confirm that.
thank you. how did you talk him into it?
nothing? [points to the screen] what about that?
that's a density. i know you think i'm convincing myself but this brain has been hammered for years meaning evidence may be subtle but it's there.
can we discuss my incompetence somewhere else?
could be neurosyphilis.
and he's been on the road since he was 14.
i assume he wanted me off the case and you told him i was hit in the head as a child and your mother made you promise to take care of me.
we should start plasmapheresis immediately.
mpa can progress quickly. we may not have time before it reaches his lungs.
can't be easy doing what you do. i mean do you love it? is it fun? i had my own plastic surgery practice making lots of money but i wasn't happy. it wasn't what i went to med school for.
patient's arms are now paralyzed. anca panel was negative. it's not mpa.
paralysis has gone from his face to his arms meaning it's descending which is the hallmark of botulism.
no contaminated food. i'm not an idiot. but what if it's not from ingesting but from injecting? he was treated for intractable muscle spasms by the team's trainers. sometimes they use botox.
the antitoxin could cause anaphylaxis. we need to test first to confirm.
it's a different situation different symptom different diagnosis.
no adverse effects.
then which answer is it? chase feels guilty for pushing you to move out?
guilt about skanks.
it's not the other option.
that good-looking? [park tries to answer but no words come out. bobby's forefinger moves.] did you see that? [to bobby] you're feeling something?
luckily i get patients like you every now and again who let me reexperience the joy.
to hockey?
good for you. [he shoots] ooh! first goal for the pocket rocket. bobby? [bobby is holding his chest and having trouble breathing.] we need a team in here!
he's completely paralyzed and he tested negative for botulism.
unless they played sports all their lives and had two physicals a year.
that's a bad fit. i say that not because there's no treatment for mld but because it's a bad fit. his cognitive abilities are unaffected.
the test for prions is a brain biopsy. given his history there's got to be brain swelling. we can't risk drilling into his skull.
we also could keep talking until we can find an answer we all can agree on.
or i could just discuss it on my own with foreman.
i get it. he's a patient. i'm not<U+0097>
take me off the case. i've obviously completely lost my objectivity. i'm not helping i'm not even neutral.
because you were right. i hate bullies.
you're not a bully.
i've known a lot of bullies <U+0097> people who didn't like me because i'm short people who didn't like me because i'm jewish<U+0097>
you relentlessly mock but it's not for self-aggrandizement. it's because ideas are bigger than feelings. at least that's what i choose to believe. i also thought you had the side effect of desensitizing me.
i just had a light bulb. maybe.
stop. it's not prions. epstein-barr gave him mono. it also gave him miller fisher syndrome. the plasmapheresis played through the whistle. we gave it to him for mpa but when he got worse we took him off. when he got better we thought it was the antitoxin. but it was actually the plasmapheresis still working. we had the right treatment just the wrong diagnosis.
what about the flooded backyard and pretending to be lemieux?
that'd be nice.
initial exam showed no sign of trauma or subconjunctival hemorrhage.
lymphocytosis works. maybe we should take another look at the blood.
every guy who's ever seen a merchant ivory movie has paid for sex. [turning to her] no. it just seems too demeaning to women.
if i'm wrong then why is he coming back?
he's just running away. he hangs out with a doll he never needs to fear rejection.
ooh a metaphor. what you didn't foresee is that is that i actually do have a sex doll.
he's right. the obvious solution is for me to hand my kids over to your parents.
you do understand the irony here. you mocking us for avoiding relationships but you can't handle losing your doll. you're spending all this time and energy interviewing for a new one.
should we get the one with the panda on it or the bird? [he points at one of them randomly.] good choice. pandas eat only bamboo they know nothing about cereal.
thanks. she keeps me very busy.
her mother died in childbirth. [there is an awkward silence between the two adults while the girl is laughing.]
hematocrit was rock normal.
i'm guessing she didn't ask for this favor.
or reincarnation. in a past life she was anne boleyn.
wendy jacobson. 33 brown grad family therapist.
first date we didn't discuss everything important<U+0097>
you're wrong. i actually like her. i'm going to see her again.
listen um i have to admit something.
her mom isn't dead. we're separated.
elevated transaminases confirm liver failure. we'll have to put him on the transplant list in a couple days.
$7000?
pretty sure she was joking.
those dolls are only $5000. he must have had it customized somehow. [they all look at him in disbelief.] oh like you didn't check the website?
i was curious.
why?
spinal fluid was full of white cells. meningitis could be carcinomatous.
how could amoebas get past his cribriform plate? he went swimming in a frozen lake in new jersey?
i'd love to prove house wrong but i ruined my marriage broke two people's hearts had two kids who are always going to wonder why i didn't love their mommy enough. it's better if i just focus on what i do have. [he closes his locker.] give that band guy a call.
adams works 80 hours a week fixing bunions on hobos because she can't face getting to know someone new. trust me. you find a boyfriend she'll be the jealous one. [he leaves.]
except in the rational part of the file where it says his ekg's within normal limits. it's not his heart.
i'll tell you what would be weirder if you didn't dream about having sex with chase.
no. but i've dreamed about having sex with a lot of people i work with and it didn't freak me out.
how?
good point. so you're worried about what it means?
maybe chase just represents work. you're just falling in love with your job.
you smell that?
it's mold.
it's definitely mold. [they get to the top of the stairs and look around.] i don't see any sign of water damage.
holy crap.
it looked like a slaughterhouse.
you're telling us some random person broke into your house to dismember a pig in your son's bedroom?
paddles. charge to 50.
clear!
charge to 100!
clear! [looks at the monitor] charging<U+0097>
he's stable but we've obviously got a second symptom.
there's more. the reason grandpa thinks the kid's soul is stolen is because he's convinced his son the kid's father had his stolen as well. he beat his boss to death. the dad didn't move away. he's in prison.
what about acute pericarditis? explains the dyspnea.
it's exacerbated by lying supine so the symptoms would get worse when he goes to sleep. just like all 100 of the others.
echo was negative but he has severe abdominal pain.
you'll only feel a little pinch as we give you the numbing medicine and after that you won't feel a thing.
he's seizing!
need some lorazepam in here!
yeah that's the issue not that we have no rational explanation for how the patient spoke a language he's never even heard.
axial view of mid-brain level looks good. moving on to thalamic.
[intrigued] really?
you're an idiot you know that?
i'm jealous of you two. you couldn't be more different and yet you have this good thing happening. you support each other. you like each other. don't let house screw it up.
yeah you are.
lue? you okay?
lue! lue you're safe. you're in the hospital.
no lue it wasn't real.
those bruises weren't there before.
he had the dream and then he had the bruising.
is it really preposterous that dreams can have physical manifestations?
thoughts during sleep can and do cause physical changes.
[to adams] can you please hint to house that you had a sex dream? i'd really prefer not to get distracted with trying to cure the patient today.
i'm struggling with it too but these things can be explained medically.
it's always good to rule out the bad things.
[to adams] was he?
he was levitating.
yes but then i would have come into the room and reported that the patient was weirdly arching his back off the bed. [house grabs his cane and gets up.] it was his whole body. he was levitating.
the kid's not a magician.
except he wasn't!
and you think he's right?
i'm sorry but there's no way we can allow him to perform an exorcism in your son's hospital room.
what about a carotid aneurysm? we should do an angiogram.
her kid levitated. that happens to my girl i'm expanding my diagnostic horizons.
it can't be a pda. he's not an infant nor has he had any symptoms for eight years.
so no evidence is evidence of evidence?
i thought we were looking for 100.
we need to put him on the o.r. schedule.
he's crashing. call a code!
he's gonna be okay.
[to adams] there were two things we thought were impossible. one of them wasn't. that's all we know.
house taking time off is a bad sign.
yes. you're new.
nosebleeds and breathing problems are common symptoms of ataxia telangiectasia.
we could come back.
my daughters do that too. but they know that sometimes when it seems like mommy and daddy are fighting it's really only because they're worried about you.
no. everything's fine at home. hold still now. no more talking.
if my kids were born with an expiration date i don't<U+0097>
where does it hurt?
we were able to restore circulation to her hands and feet before any permanent damage set in.
could be secondary raynaud's. lupus is consistent with emily's symptoms
what about a pulmonary embolism?
bruising from when she fell off the carousel. contusion damages a deep vein causes a clot. a piece breaks off travels to her lungs.
we believe emily has a clot in her lungs. if you leave now she could die before her new doctors are even up to speed.
from the fall off the carousel.
i worked six months in a research lab after med school. you get so focused. once i didn't eat for two days. it's easy to forget what actually matters.
(looking at emily on the monitor) whatever it is there's liver involvement. her eyes are jaundiced. her liver's failing.
we found a blockage in her hepatic vein which is restricting blood flow to her liver.
let's stick with our process.
advanced lyme disease.
fungal infection.
not picking up.
you think cancer would present and kill her in three days
he hates all doctors and it's mutual.
mistakes are a wee bit easier to find on a dead patient a distinction he fails to recognize. he's a rat.
everyone in the basement would be sick.
it's pretty orwellian. all written in his secret code.
just like the wannsee conference.
i get it. treiber is nerd king. the more people we kill the more lives he saves. test is negative for dimethyl sulfate her blood is not toxic. [he stands up.]
you really think the hospital is idiotic enough to issue toxic supplies?
then he's the idiot?
but we found enough of this [he throws a can of the energy drink to house who grabs it.] to reanimate the entire morgue. he's jacked on caffeine.
where's house?
here we go again. diabetes could cause nerve damage in his hand and guts and<U+0097>
try him again.
you think it's an intussusception?
you want to lie to a guy whose favorite pastime is getting doctors fired.
belly film was normal. no sign of an intussusception or any other obstruction.
that's serious surgery. general anesthesia long recovery
uh no. not fine. we need to talk<U+0097>
as long as he lets me.
yes and if i didn't have two daughters and alimony i might have done the same.
and kutner and amber are dead and thirteen is having sweet sapphic sex on some island.
is it an intussusception?
or his email.
until the pleural effusions.
it's sarcoidosis.
no we can't. amphotericin plus the contrast dye for the biopsy would overwhelm his kidneys. we have to choose one or the other.
he already called other hospitals. treiber did get under his skin.
you're not even gonna talk to chase?
either you're right and your friend is just really upset or you're wrong and he's come at this calmly and rationally and you're about to lose a good doctor. either way [foreman gives him a meaningful look. taub leaves.]
peter open your eyes. [he looks at his eyes with a penlight.] coma.
all brains on deck.
lymphoma?
19-year-old cheerleader admitted with massive nosebleed and dizziness.
mini-stroke could explain our patient's neurosymptoms and his butterfingers.
no lesions along the optic track? (he notices that park is looking at scans she has already seen) you already covered that.
why? because someone somewhere is dying? (looking at the monitor) oh crap turn off the mic!
not according to his brain. (indicating the monitor) his temporal lobe is completely lit up. auditory portion. he's hearing something.
hey wils<U+0097> (surveying the scene) seriously?
our patient is hearing voices.
we already ordered a psych evaluation but drugs could also cause<U+0097>
we're not cops. we're your roommate's doctors. any idea what flavor of drugs would be making your roommate sick?
maybe it's his nephew or something?
viral encephalitis.
why? when was the last time house listened to anything we said about anything personal? maybe you'll feel better but sometimes the truth is there's nothing anyone can do.
(getting back to the case) temporal lobe epilepsy. causes voices dizziness. trauma from seizure would explain the nosebleed.
(interrupting) sorry. it's time to go down for your test.
a glowing letter of recommendation you just wrote for me on my laptop. i notice it's lacking your signature at the bottom.
not demise. just implosion.
you think being forced to bury painful memories is making symptoms worse?
studies after september 11th showed that repression was actually better for coping than dwelling in misery. what about polycythemia vera?
hodgkin's lymphoma?
(motioning toward the bathroom) i thought you had to go to the bathroom.
what are you doing back here?
this isn't about the damage. you're back because something's going on with wilson.
what does that mean you're done with wilson? if he's not dead you're not done with wilson.
you can't just abandon him.
you quizzing us?
you're being an ass.
you can't just give up on wilson. you know he needs you. you know he's making an impossible choice. he just doesn't want to live in pain.
wilson is dying. your parole officer is probably on his way here right now. how are you possibly in a good mood?
but blah blah blah blah blah.
house we need a call here.
i think they're pulling a body out.
he made me a better parent whether he meant to or not.
