hi.
i'm not sloppy seconds.
yes i was on call for neurology.
i am not a reject.
i can't. i punched my attending.
we probably shouldn't be turning up unannounced like this. their son just died.
i'd really rather not.
my mom's filipino dad's korean and my boss grabbed my behind.
i don't have a boyfriend. it's my parents. if they found out what i've done they'd be mortified.
i live with them.
mr. weathers i am sure you're right but we need to be thorough. did your son ever smoke marijuana?
(whispering) i think he's about to throw us out.
do you know any of the kids at the party with your son?
(speaking quietly to house) i understand that we're in a hurry but maybe he should.
i'm not worried.
we have to wheel this out to the mri. we should probably leave the body in the bag.
i had a video interview with chicago yesterday. it went well.
you're right. i should just drive my car into their living room and tell them
paraneoplastic syndrome's out. the lung donor didn't have cancer.
that mass wasn't a tumor. it was coagulated plasma. e.r. pumped him full of it. i.v. leaked into his arm. i even did a complete mri. no cancer anywhere. we've got nothing.
but every unit of plasma can have up to 25 contributing donors. we need to track down all of them.
(getting into her car in a residential neighborhood) donor six traveled to thailand around khorat. region was endemic with dengue fever.
alcohol.
these guys have got that covered. acute etoh ingestion could have<U+0097>(she interrupts the call to yell at the painting crew) hey paint around them they're not hurting anyone]
the crew's just starting. paint fumes didn't cause contamination. but maybe the old paint did. they scraped off the underpass probably because it contains lead.
fourth. are you checking up on me or on house?
98%. airway resistance down.
i have no idea.
dad what are you doing here?
what text?
i'm consulting on this case. unique situation.
lungs are crashing. i have to go. bye.
(checking the iv line) saline flow is down to 10 ccs.
chelation is making it worse. it means we were wrong about lead.
saline's flushing it forward but getting no return. one-way valve. vasospasm.
the lungs have no nervous system. will that still work?
(watching the lungs) right middle lobe isn't.
we killed part of the lung.
we're going to the cath lab? are you thinking that maybe<U+0097>
it makes sense. unlike you stealing my phone.
i told you i'm korean and filipino.
violence isn't an appropriate way to handle conflict. it was a moment of weakness.
no.
i tracked down another bag of plasma from the batch they used on the donor. negative for all our other exposures.
(ignoring house park opens the patient file) um transplant team ran an a.c.e. negative.
my job is to assist you in curing the lungs.
what if the scrapings from the bridge contained other heavy metals like barilium or asbestos?
his body wasn't disposing of iron. massive amounts choke up the lungs. then our chelation would wreak havoc because it picks up too much stuff.
hi.
hemosiderosis. i'm staining for excess iron.
i'm guessing he does things like that a lot.
did you mention what happened?
(slightly angry) why exactly is that good for you?
i'm a talented physician top 2% of my class. i'm an asset to this hospital an asset you're about to lose to chicago.
andrews is the one that should leave. he's the supervisor. he touched me first.
(meekly) no. thank you.
dr. foreman? would you look at this?
no. white blood cells.
how the hell did we miss that?
biopsy revealed white blood cell inflitrates.
why aren't you more alarmed? we're running out of time.
infection was the first thing that the transplant team treated for.
(reaching for and eating a piece of fruit) but that's what white blood cells are.
did you use metaphors for your old team? or do you just think i'm particularly stupid?
a few minutes after i started the ivig.
iga nephropathy.
maybe we're just out of time.
but the kid never smoked.
eosiniphilic pneumonitis. but the steroids would have treated for that.
at some point you're going to say we need to radiate right?
but that'll destroy the good lung too. better to go with a strong cocktail of immunosuppressants.
it's working.
(looking up at foreman) he did it.
i'm not going to chicago.
i know.
dad do you have a minute?
why am i watching you cut your hair?
i was referring less to where it's happening and more to why.
does that mean you like your new life?
it doesn't seem like much of a case. although i'm sure i'm wrong
guy collapsed after being on his feet for hours on a hot day without breakfast so that's really weird.
he's rich? that's why we're taking the case?
this is my only copy.
you can't afford a team.
i don't think we actually have much of a case. i think it's just dehydration.
it can also just be dehydration. (to benjamin) next time you could probably drop the undercover act.
he's nuts.
there's a neurological issue. he's getting rid of everything.
he has one pair of pants.
that's naive and sick. you really want to improve things? you do it through policy. this guy empties his pockets what really changes?
my parents had $800 between them when they got here. they scraped and borrowed so we could go to good schools and i worked my ass off. no one gave me a handout. it makes me work harder.
your old team?
there is a symptom extreme altruism.
the test is designed to determine if you're<U+0097>
you don't scare her. you make her feel guilty.
complete recruitment and interference pattern. his leg muscles are fine.
you're tachycardic. your heart's beating too fast.
patient got tachycardic to 185. we pushed 18 milligrams adenosine. there's definitely something wrong with him.
thanks.
what about whipple's?
you don't think defying human nature is neurological?
are you saying that because you believe it or because it's in your financial best interest to think his generosity isn't just temporary?
it's a tough thing to control. is there someone you want me to call?
but family comes first.
yes it gives you a responsibility.
your hands are trembling.
are you in pain?
i'm not sure but it's not what we thought it was.
he lost his wife and kids because he couldn't stop giving money away.
drink it don't drink it. the point is i gave it to you so we're even.
why?
so a guy gives everything away to strangers: sane. girl who doesn't want anything from a stranger: crazy.
anyway he'd be getting better right now not worse. could be polyarteritis nodosa.
i started the last round of pleconaril.
a favor? (adams hands park a box with a pair of heeled shoes in it) you want me to return these? give them to someone? wear them while you masturbate?
that's not a favor.
they're $120. my car is in the shop. i'm short on cash this month. i can't pay you back. (hands them to adams)
you do know i punched the last person that pissed me off?
what test?
i've been saying all along this could be whipple's. causes arrhythmia tremor and mental changes.
we thought the case was over. she has a job interview.
why is she here?
magnesium deficiency?
bad idea. he doesn't have joint pain.
endoscopy didn't reveal any lesions in the small intestine. i'm running pcr test now.
damn it.
and that was supposed to be the end of it. i don't take charity.
i don't like owing people things.
i just don't like it. it makes me feel icky.
house (looking at the computer screen) there's no sign of tropheryma dna. it's not whipple's.
maybe he got bit by a spider. the symptoms can take up to three days to manifest.
lcdd?
that's idiotic. (foreman gives her a look) sorry.
is she on the team now? like forever? his thyroid levels were within normal range when he was admitted.
my mechanic called. he said the work's been paid for.
that's $4500.
you win. (gives adams a fake smile) thank you.
your car is getting fixed. you're right. she went for it.
i don't take charity. i'm just glad it's over.
patient's visited china a lot recently. what about the jbe virus?
central serous retinopathy. [she gets up and closes house's laptop.] it's linked to type a personalities.
what? he apologized.
he grabbed my behind.
he grabbed it he apologized for grabbing it and now he's taking classes because he grabbed it.
100 bucks says i won't get fired.
i the bet is<U+0097>
after then i oh<U+0097>
the bet's that i'll get fired after my hearing!
thyrotoxicosis?
you got the money? how?
patriotism is natural. we've always relied on our tribes to keep us safe. it's helpful for society if its members have positive feelings about that society.
i think it could be hyperviscosity syndrome. are you sure foreman's okay with this thing in his office?
if it makes andrews look sympathetic
what about another clotting problem? factor 5 leiden deficiency.
house
sorry.
why did you do that?
but he's the chair of the disciplinary committee. forget about the bet.
and if he has factor 5 leiden deficiency he'll throw another clot.
my ten-year-old cousin lives near cebu city. works at an american factory.
it's the best thing for him. it sucks but the filipino factories suck worse and the schools would suck if they existed. so this is the family's best hope. [barton is scratching his neck.] are you okay?
first patriotism now loyalty. you hate ice cream too?
you need help with the lacerations?
prevent what? he got in a fight.
sometimes it's incredibly satisfying to wind up and punch someone who really deserves it. but when you think about the consequences<U+0097>
i thought you wanted me to help him with his anger.
dr. wilson i need your advice. um i bet house $100 that i wouldn't get fired after my disciplinary hearing. [she sits down in front of him.] ever since then he's been acting like he's actually trying to get me fired.
does he hate me?
so it's really over $100?
he'll ruin my career.
what if i bet him $200 i will get fired.
if you were me what would you do?
if the plumbing's fine check the electrical. ep study.
i'm not going to lose. my college roommate is the editor of the yale law review. she's writing my opening statement.
no he said i'm a drunk idiot who thinks he can grab girls' behinds without ramifications.
i already told foreman he'd been drinking that night.
you already knew andrews was drinking that night didn't you?
i think you should cancel my hearing.
you're the one who brought andrews in. you set the wheels in motion.
i can understand the rationalization. we'll see if the board agrees when i tell them the whole story at my hearing
oh.
i'm so dead. i-i think house set me up. have you sent the committee a character reference for me?
i don't like gifts. it wouldn't be a gift. i would just be you telling the truth.
heart rate's only 90. neck veins are flat.
that's my old boss. you don't actually think this is neurological.
micropsia bleeding tachycardia and difficulty breathing.
it's not his spinal cord it's the wiring between his heart and his brain. autonomic dysregulation syndrome. you do a tilt table test see how his heart rate responds. that'll confirm.
then it's a good thing he has a.d.s.
it's autonomic dysregulation syndrome.
we're doing the tilt table.
this bet's got to be a test. see if i can handle working with him. i need to prove i have the confidence to disobey him.
the symptoms fit and andrews is a hack. do you think i'm right? [adams nods.]
dr. foreman members of the committee thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak to you today i
no it was my idea!
brain scans indicate it could be loa loa disease.
he said he was at work.
dr. park. [she and taub shake hands.] you're a lot taller than i thought you'd be.
wow twins congratulations.
but we could end up causing another cardiac arrest.
don't you guys think this is irresponsible? it's like you getting two women pregnant at the same time. i just mean the part about the odds of it happening. they had to be incredibly high. and if we induce v-fib odds say that we'll be able to revive him. but there's always a chance we can't.
his heart rate's finally elevating.
there wasn't any abnormal electrical activity in his e.k.g. when his seizure occurred. it wasn't caused by a v-fib.
a pheochromocytoma. [getting up and grabbing her end of the couch] excess adrenaline can cause heart problems and seizures.
i'm sorry. i thought i was here to treat the patients not entertain you.
so i'm right.
what exactly are they building back there?
you said i was wrong.
he couldn't find a babysitter. get over it.
[whispers] she thinks i'm a prostitute on her turf. showing weakness is what gets you killed.
[whispers] i'm in a dump with a guy almost twice my age. what else is she gonna think?
where is the construction crew?
meningitis. we can do a lumbar puncture to confirm.
lab tests show the bed tested positive for uh semen vaginal secretions saliva and fecal matter both human and animal. [taub's face falls as she reads the list.]
the bathroom also tested positive for five different types of pathogenic bacteria.
yeah. how'd you know?
there's plenty of time for that after the operation.
i think he actually has a good point. what would you think if you found out years later your beloved dead wife cheated on you?
i'm so sorry.
we could be dealing with an alcoholic going through withdrawal. it explains his heart seizures and liver failing.
why are we stealing cable from here? we don't even have a tv in our office.
cultures take time and his liver doesn't have much left.
[whispers] that went over well.
if everyone did that we'd never find a donor for anyone again.
he's allergic to a person?
what did you think was gonna happen?
and if you live? you didn't just burn bridges. you torched nuked and salted the earth with them.
it's the swab for wheat-based allergies.
this doesn't make any sense. he broke out with a rash right after i tested with the wheat-allergy swab but none of his blood samples show he's allergic to it.
none of his samples test positive for anything.
is everyone trying to think of an answer? or is everyone afraid to say
stevens-johnson syndrome it fits all of his symptoms and explains why he got worse after the steroids. most medication exacerbates the condition.
i never heard of a neurological problem that causes someone's skin to fall off.
a hot tub would be cool.
head ct and cerebral angiogram are normal. clotting parameters are normal.
house has a point. a couple nights a week with each kid may make you feel better. doesn't replace two 'round-the-clock parents.
syph test was negative. plus the kid's never been sexually active.
if your own kids are a scheduling item maybe you should let one of them move.
he also has a low red count. what if it's a retroperitoneal bleed?
maternal grandmother's worse than that. (to taub) where did you unload the baby?
so much for genetics mattering. i'll try the marrow registry.
mitchell gordon?
we know there are some issues there but your bone marrow could cure him.
he had a bleeding problem earlier. must be bleeding into his lungs.
except there's no blood.
it means you don't have to make that drive. the problem isn't his marrow. it's his liver.
(referring to the removal of the ankle bracelet) this is how you plan to get to the boxing game?
he's a minor the mom's his guardian and it's not even medically relevant.
do you only like tests that involve the risk of death?
anasarca?
swelling that fast and localized has to come from the lymph nodes. burkitt's lymphoma.
we caught it early. you should be okay.
he's crashing. everything's shutting down.
multiple aneurysms?
pax river is like completely flat. i think that's why they tested the v-22 osprey there. [everyone stares.] i like naval stuff.
she was in a car accident when she was two. she only had minor injuries but her father died.
no i think it's sad. she got sick in the middle of her 14th birthday party. which is sad and pertinent. maybe she was opening a present that triggered the reaction.
do you like your dentist? i'm still going to my pediatric one. what's your dentist's name?
you're not sure of his name? you just saw him this morning.
[leaning over and inspecting chase's hand] you had a manicure. this is fresh! you weren't at the dentist. why would you lie about that?
you've had your hair cut three times since i've met you. you can't be embarrassed about a manicure. there's gotta be a deeper reason.
[voice] ms.
[rising from her seat to stare intently at chase] he's had his eyebrows waxed.
interesting.
a blood disorder. maybe thrombocytopenia.
halfway through the perimetry exam her tunnel vision went away. she can see perfectly.
so you just wanted to look pretty on tv.
could be pre-eclampsia.
shingles could cause chest pain before a rash appeared.
well why would anyone try to poison our guy?
not really.
you really think i care about your car? or are you just trying to avoid talking about why you don't like working with me?
house is an ass but he's an intuitive ass. he obviously noticed something.
maybe we should leave before the police get here.
he's a prosecutor. obviously he knows a lot of cops. his house is not gonna be low priority.
(looking at the bookcase) wait. the dining room's on the other side of that wall.
but it ends like three feet further over.
there's a magnet on the fridge they use to open child-proofed cabinets. go get it. hurry up.
holy crap. (they open the secret door behind the bookcase)
we didn't find any poisons.
this isn't necessarily paranoia. societies do fall apart. look what happened with london and the riots.
imagine what would happen if there was a terrorist attack on the food supply or a pandemic where we had to ration antibiotics.
(to adams) it was a little harsh.
what? paranoid?
he's not hallucinating.
no we shouldn't. if it's not poison it's most likely atrial fibrillation brought on by hyperthyroidism or sleep apnea.
he's not stuck with me.
so what do you think <U+0097> is the patient paranoid or am i?
and me?
it's all of you. i feel like you don't respect me. chase certainly doesn't try to hide it.
i don't own a gun. i've thought about it but i'd probably end up shooting someone in my own family like when my brother tosses his toenail clippings behind the couch. what about you?
you're lying aren't you?
you don't need to stay. we won't have the results until the morning.
what's that from?
you don't feel that?
say what?
it would have to be pretty far along. his first symptom was just a few days ago.
if he's paranoid.
shouldn't we wait for the biopsy results before we start treatment?
i know you don't think i'm an idiot.
if you're just looking to amuse yourself at my expense then no. but if you feel the need to manipulate me to make me useful then yes. i thought we'd gotten past that.
so this is you trying to help me?
i deserve respect. i'm a good doctor.
i agree. except for the again. acute onset points to tularemia.
tularemia doesn't always show up in blood work either.
schizophrenia doesn't cause skin ulcers or fevers.
i don't think he's a psych case.
because his symptoms point towards an infection that spread to his brain. i think we should treat with high-dose broad-spectrum<U+0097>
i'm not paranoid. and they don't dislike me. they don't even really know me.
i didn't ask because you wouldn't believe the answer.
you're the one everyone dislikes. you probably don't even think it's gad. you're just agreeing with her because you think it'll create more conflict between us.
his fever's going through the roof which means we were wrong about gad and the steroids kicked the infection into high gear.
we can't. if it's an infection we'll kill him for sure.
we were already stupid with the infection but it's not too late. he's young and he was perfectly healthy two days ago. he can fight this off if we give him a chance.
for the wrong diagnosis. if it was gad he'd be having seizures.
yet.
and an allergic reaction wouldn't get worse three days after he was admitted.
what about squamous cell carcinoma? if it's only in his epithelium it wouldn't show up in his chest x-ray.
it could if you also have paraneoplastic syndrome.
diphtheria?
how are you feeling?
the antitoxin is working. he'll be able to go home in a few days.
hey.
would you like to get a drink sometime after work?
i was thinking just the two of us.
no it was just something i'd been thinking about and i figured what the heck? might as well ask.
didn't you marry someone you used to work with?
tonight?
the bathroom's that way.
[checking the cupboards] plenty of food water.
she eats well. goes to school and makes good grades. she's a homeless girl who's captain of the volleyball team.
i want and need parents. jane doe is flourishing without them.
you've never done this before have you?
diagnosis depends on whether the blood was coming from the sinuses lungs or her guts. [mr. chips has wandered away from the center circle.] mr. chips looks like he wants it. 100 bucks says he'll make soup out of franklin.
i'm assuming you're thinking something genetic because<U+0097>
you mean like we should be more optimistic?
he thought taub's idea was stupid.
he thought that was stupid too.
oh. i thought the patient had normal pressure hydrocephalus.
the explosion does. check out the video again. he smacked his head against the wall. if that caused swelling in his brainstem that would have led to eventual loss of consciousness and paralysis.
so we discussed it a little longer and house decided to treat with heparin.
it was aerosolized heparin.
he smacked his head against the wall. if that caused swelling in his brainstem that would have led to eventual loss of consciousness and paralysis.
gas mask. [long pause] the stink bomb was chase's. he was getting revenge for the orange hair and rigged it in house's office. but house found it.
[hands cupped over her mouth and nose] silver sulfadiazine works well on chemical burns.
but that's only experimental. it's never actually been used before.
no. i told house i thought it was a mistake.
i think i might have said insane.
no i
i did speak up. i tried.
and that's why i went to dr. foreman.
the heparin could cause the patient to bleed into his lungs even faster.
it probably doesn't mean anything but we want to make sure.
the rash? that was nothing. just some irritation from lying in bed all day. the problem was the patient's brain. he freaked out.
the evidence pointed to psychosis. we caused it by giving him steroids when he first came in.
good carotid pulse.
no.
bp is stable.
he doesn't have one. he's on bypass.
my friend is here because you didn't listen to me.
you're through the aorta.
stop there. shoot the dye.
i'm i'm sorry i led house to you.
maybe we could get a meal after work tonight if you want some companionship.
no. i just i guess that sounded must be scary to be back. all those knives and needles. infected blood and tissue everywhere you look. just thought you might need someone to talk to about it.
(jumping back in fright) ah.
i want to make sure i can position her wrist properly.
a.b.g.
i'm sorry about before.
i'm scared of everything.
like you have?
i know i i left the room. it was pure luck.
the liver failure could be from intraoperative hypotension.
disseminated t-cell lymphoma.
i haven't done a jugular line since my residency. i don't want to needle the carotid.
palpate the s.c.m.
middle third of the neck.
no paralysis was first. aneurysm?
with no local symptoms?
e.r. did a head ct. no sign of avm. decent thought though.
it doesn't explain the fever. the patient's talking about compromise. if you don't think that's possible you don't think relationships are possible.
this guy's just playing to his audience. women are by far the biggest consumers of the self-help industry.
i'm in.
maybe the testicular damage set the stage for something worse. multiple sclerosis causes incontinence and progresses faster in men with low t.
so nobody cares about the job till i apply and suddenly it's the last limited-edition light saber at comic-con.
doesn't look meaningless on my resume.
yeah let's go affirmative action on this because then i'll definitely win.
amy grant?
you have a limited amount of time to learn a ton of uninteresting facts. welcome to my wheelhouse.
you never know when you might need to make a pie chart.
yes. we'll be using a basic alphabet technique with a mnemonic multiplier. in high school they called me the bookie monster. [claps] pop quiz. where did you get the candlesticks? [she points to the mantelpiece.] on three. one two three.
drink up. it's gonna be a long night.
[voice] smile. it's your honeymoon.
let's do some winter shots. wardrobe change.
or a blatant flaunting of cleavage. like those.
with an argument like that maybe you should just drop down to your knees and <U+0097> i mean unless that's not your strength.
does dominika still communicate with her high school friends?
haven't you been divorced three times?
so are you going for this team leader thing?
you deserve it. you have way more experience than me.
i wish. i still have a lot of med school debt and my parents need help with their mortgage. so i could kinda use the money.
chase<U+0097>
i think the whites of his eyes were yellow.
there's something wrong with your liver.
so much for myasthenia gravis.
wow you said that with so much authority. did anyone else get chills?
did you miss the recap? we treated for that. the liver tanked.
i think it's lyme disease. one single disease named lyme.
someone does win powerball. every week. the patient went to puerto rico a few months ago. one of the few places in the u.s. you could pick up strongyloides.
your glee is on the verge of making this not worth it for any of us.
hurry.
it could be caused by drug abuse.
seizure noise-induced epilepsy <U+0097> the sound of rush hour traffic could have set it off.
[entering] or had an epileptic seizure.
a lot of times a family member notices before the patient does. i'm doctor park by the way. i'm 5'2 asian and i'm totally cool with it if you wanna feel my face.
maybe his girlfriend poisoned him. [the others stare at her.] house usually thinks that's a good guess. and she's gotta be pissed off and have low self-esteem. why else would she give him a free pass to pork other women?
he has fake children now too?
the antibiotics will stop the infection from spreading further.
probably didn't help but diabetics are prone to this type of infection.
it's beautiful.
i guess convincing her to take a break was a good thing.
what are you doing?
we're here. might as well eat.
we're doing him a favor. he owes me.
he talked me into it then slept with three of my friends. then dumped my ass. college boyfriend. thought he was the love of my life.
my self-esteem wasn't as high back then.
ugh! [she races to the sink and spits it out.] sugar free! [she drinks from the tap.] ugh. disgusting.
i know what's wrong with the patient. illegal drugs. some kind of acid.
his apartment wasn't.
then why am i completely tripping balls right now? i'm seriously freaking out here guys. can't you tell? [there's nothing to see. she's behaving normally for her.]
i think so because he's a rabbit.
oh i get it. because she's his wife. [she holds her hand to the corner of her mouth and stage whispers confidentially to house.] they flirt a lot. i've seen things.
mm taub<U+0097> taub is either a tooth fairy or rainbow brite.
and you [laughs] you're just house.
[worried staring at her hands] am i gonna die?
[laughs] oh i get it. the second birthmark was on his penis right?
give me back my teeth!
you're a tooth thief!
[standing on the couch] that rabbit stole my teeth.
embarrassed. i'm still not sure what was real or what i hallucinated. did you try to kiss me? [adams shakes her head.] what about you? [chase frowns.]
it could be doing both. our treatment breaks down his clot in his head like it's supposed to except a piece broke off and traveled to one of his arteries in his lungs. if anything we need to increase the heparin to prevent further clots from forming.
eighty-two pounds. [they all look at her.] how much weight i put on when my break ended the same way. people were calling me park-ing-lot.
he's right. this sample from his eyes is crawling with it.
no fever. why couldn't they take care of him at a military hospital?
so i'm the only one who has a problem when someone whose duty's to protect our country blowing<U+0097>
he's a coward.
he anonymously downloaded a computer file from a secure page and uploaded it to an unsecure page. not exactly storming omaha beach. the eeg was normal because he was faking it to avoid going to prison.
(pointing) those are the same clothes you wore yesterday.
or maybe he thinks you just have more than one non-descript white blouse.
(to adams) let's go.
(to brant) while we wait can you tell me why?
there are reports that insurgents are using your video to recruit new members.
no you don't. we gave you a placebo to see if you'd fake another symptom to delay going to prison.
because that's not the way your dad raised him?
doesn't explain the seizures.
you don't think you're to blame at all?
your spleen it's enlarged. we should do a biopsy and look for any<U+0097>
(who notices that he is bleeding at the iv site on his hand) not just urinary.
he's bleeding too fast to wait for a platelet infusion.
no history of anemia.
and the bruises.
it could be. reduced fine motor control. add that to inattention and liver flap. it does make sense.
it would take too long to reach his bloodstream.
are you even gonna acknowledge what we just told you?
his clot dissolved. that could have caused the vasospasm. d.i.c. could have been caused by bernard soulier syndrome. and you're sick and you have to do something about it.
house could be at 90% he could be at 60% we don't know.
i know we disagree with house all the time but before i could say okay he's a genius. now maybe he's just really smart.
legionnaire's.
you threatened to fire the next person who<U+0097>
so we got groped for nothing. if he doesn't want to stay alive<U+0097>
and now you're going to brilliantly deduce which one of us is the rat?
not without continuing dental pain.
i want to kill my mother. my popo's on her own and my mother always needs me to take care of her.
i have to take her shopping to her friends to atlantic city. i love her but every night every weekend
my mom would freak. it would be the ultimate sign of disrespect.
not everyone's lucky enough to have your independence.
[looking at the screen] he doesn't have sarcoid.
that's his spleen.
leukemia's a better fit.
alcoholism. we should search his home and locker room.
i got in a fight with my mother.
if i can find a place i can afford so no.
that might be kind of weird.
it's just two single people opposite sex. i<U+0097>
scrip for glanciclovir. if his neighbor has mono could mean he has mono. if he has mono explains his spleen and hemoptysis. and it's caused by epstein-barr virus which explains his liver. and my moonroof leaks. thank you.
hey uh i let myself in. um this is<U+0097>
my dad's getting a cyst removed and my mother had to take him to the clinic. don't worry. she'll be gone in an hour.
you haven't seen her drunk.
it's not a new symptom. he's crying because his liver failure threw his hormones out of whack.
i moved into chase's apartment. [chase looks up.] he knows. he was staring at our matching cups. i told you we should split up. we're not having sex. with each other
yes.
i just mean no one knows the future right now so we don't really know the only conclusive test for cte is post-mortem.
this is really insulting.
sensory involvement rules out als.
anything?
chase let me move in with him to get away from my grandmother. then he practically let my grandmother move in with the both of us. he's being way more than nice.
he didn't push me.
he loves skanks.
there are people that like me. people even want to sleep with me. some of them are even good-looking.
how about mld?
[after a pause] i'm not sleeping with you.
[realizing something] this is about popo.
you were jealous of me. my family.
i might sleep with you after all.
should we ask?
lymphocytosis? alc's in normal range but it's in the high end of normal.
have you ever paid for sex?
given the things you've done to women that seems arbitrary.
who's asking?
you're micah. this guy's selling a 1974 gibson sg standard in tobacco for $1250.
oh um thanks anyway. [he nods and leaves the lab.]
maybe we should check for diabetes. could weaken conjunctival vessels. and shut up.
i'll break your face.
and you don't think it's disordered to talk to<U+0097>
it's sad.
you shouldn't sleep with chase.
nothing but house has a way of getting into people's heads.
why was it silly then? i'm not 5'9 with curves and flowing hair so it's impossible for me to get it on with a good-looking guy?
should we ask?
great.
popo needed a ride to the doctor and my mom couldn't so<U+0097>
hepatic fibrosis. if it damaged his platelets it'd explain the bleeding.
cytology showed nothing.
it could if he had a clot.
you think he drinks some sort of toxic herbal tea?
date tonight? so she can't deal. there's someone out there who can. you just got to find her.
i'm not that good at guitar. or flirting or small talk. i'm not as pretty as adams i have stuffy clothes and i hate my hair.
no mom. i'm still at work. i'll be home in a couple hours. love you too.
dd they say we're young and we don't know we won't find out until we grow
it doesn't matter. it's a dream. it doesn't mean anything.
i never remember my dreams.
i was defending science.
lung damage from inhaled toxins could keep causing problems after he woke up.
could i go with taub? it was my idea.
have you?
that's different.
'cause you've actually had sex with a lot of people at work and that hasn't freaked you out.
i'm not worried. it means nothing. it means something doesn't it? i work with him. i can't want to sleep with him.
it has been very satisfying lately.
yeah. smells like wet dog.
it's not mold.
push 1 milligram epi!
still v-tach!
wait! normal sinus rhythm.
it's a traditional hmong ceremony that's supposed to call back the kid's soul.
it's not ptsd.
but he hasn't. it happened when he was two and all he's ever been told is that his parents divorced and his dad moved away.
can i just say that i very much enjoy my job?
what? you startled me.
have you ever dreamt about having sex with me?
you paused.
no i think you're fighting the urge to snap the word no because your subconscious finds the idea abhorrent.
talk to your subconscious.
so you don't find the idea abhorrent?
you just did. [they reach lue's room. taub comes out.] what happened?
no spores clostridium or organic toxins in the kitchen samples. nothing in the bedroom either.
nice call.
scleroderma advanced to the point that it's affecting his brain?
i'm looking at him. [she does.]
i had another dream last night. this time it was about you.
see that's how you're supposed to react. when a woman tells you she's dreamt about you you should be thrilled even if you're not interested in her whatsoever.
well i definitely won't be dreaming about you tonight.
we're not that different.
he would have bruises everywhere.
third?
liver biopsy's back. team's about to meet. [she turns to leave.]
want me to gaze longingly into your eyes as i tell you the test results?
yeah egotism and preening really turn me on.
[stepping closer to him] because anyone who hasn't gotten wet from your petri dish of stds clearly has low self-esteem!
dick!
chase! [she's at the door.] you coming? liver biopsy's back.
god!
tetanus could cause muscle rigidity. maybe he was propped up by his heel and elbow.
it fits.
was i good?
it means something.
well it could mean the obvious that you want some of this.
when will you learn that that look is insulting? or it could just mean that we like each other. i'm weird and you're pretty but we connect. we feel safe. we trust each other.
[with a slight smile] just testing my theory.
we could just be seeing the natural progression of<U+0097>
we are. have you considered wegener's granulomatosis?
from what? the carousel? she was only on it for a minute.
fits coughing up blood but a clot. from what?
(looking at her pager) sort of.
good news. emily's lungs are clear. no clot.
polycythemia vera?
would have seen it in the blood.
but why is it attacking now all at once? what's changed?
if we hadn't already ruled it out it sounds like textbook pulmonary embolism.
or returning messages or texts.
hematologic malignancies. at patients are more prone to that form of cancer.
how's wilson doing?
he only hates the ones that screw up. and you. and they only hate treiber because he finds their mistakes.
who makes the hospital a safer place by keeping doctors accountable and focused. [she tries to shut down chase's laptop but he stops her from doing so.]
his lungs are fine. blood clots make more sense. one in his hand explains the paresthesia one in his carotid explains the psychotic episode.
every doctor every diagnosis every treatment every result. it's pretty impressive.
he has to keep it confidential.
the big brother metaphor wasn't pointed enough for you? you had to throw in hitler? [she approaches taub.] a couple years ago he noticed a link in child deaths and it's completely changed hospital policies all over<U+0097>
then we should look for toxic exposure from something else.
have you seen his tools? [she holds up a knife.] treiber doesn't always use hospital-issue.
no but i don't want to explain that assumption to house.
no gas.
it's just the effects of withdrawal. the pain is normal.
it could be coexistent problems. he might just have an obstruction.
except his glucose levels are normal and he probably would've mentioned he was a diabetic.
none.
it's been almost 24 hours. shouldn't we call foreman or the police? i think this makes him a fugitive.
intermittent porphyria.
why aren't you answering your pages?
the biopsy showed fibrosis in his cardiac muscle.
it means foreman was wrong too. he wants everyone to meet in his office to ddx.
interesting. or maybe you should consider not being such a baby.
are you trying to cure him or discredit him?
so you're not coming upstairs.
chase said you'd say that.
dr. treiber! dr. treiber.
he stopped responding when i was changing his i.v. bag.
you couldn't have gone through all of these.
autoimmune maybe goodpasture's.
head ct is clean.
maybe we should get someone else to take this case.
it is off.
he's at the right age for the onset of schizophrenia.
so are we gonna talk about the patient or wait for house?
it's been going on for ten years. i'm gonna go in there and invite him to participate. i think he'd welcome the distraction. (to adams) come with me?
grief avoidance can lead to all sorts of anxiety disorders which can manifest into physical illness.
would have showed up in the pet scan.
blood. if your spinal fluid is yellow instead of clear it means you've had a subarachnoid hemorrhage. (she injects the anesthesia) what does your brother say to you? does he tell you you're gonna be okay?
i think you hear your brother's voice for a reason.
yes. but that doesn't explain why you don't hear a different voice. i think your mom didn't let you deal with the grief of losing your brother properly. there are people here who could help you with that.
(preparing to insert the needle) okay.
the opening pressure's way too high.
blood vessels are nonreactive. it's not a migraine.
(turning on the mic) finishing up.
(looking up) it looks like the ceiling might.
enough to know it wasn't a migraine. and the patient mistook me for adams.
air.
had to delay the surgery because our patient drank ammonia from the janitor's cart. i guess he didn't want to live without his brother's voice.
where are you going?
(grabbing at house's arm) house!
house!
(ineffectually tugging at house) you made your point house! stop!
(still brandishing the cane) you've spent your whole life looking for the truth. but sometimes the truth just sucks.
you ran tests yourself?
blah. blah blah.
no time. his o-2 stats are falling. we have to suck it out here. bedside embolectomy.
people are found sometimes even in collapsed<U+0097>
house hired me when no one else would.
