house?
how's it going?
[closing his laptop and putting it on the table] how's the leg? how's the pain?
was there a hit-and-run on your floor? house just do what you're supposed to do. listen to the doctors and i'll be able to visit soon.
house. house. he called me.
he wanted to know about you. he wanted to warn me that you'd be calling for something. and he told me if i wanted to help you get better i had to let him do his job.
house i'm so sorry. i wish i could help you.
what was my one condition for allowing you to tag along?
roll your meatballs and keep an open mind.
how hard are you trying not to make a ball joke right now?
(turning to see his meatballs smoking in the frying pan. he turns off the burner and grabs up the spatula) ow. no no. they're browning way too fast.
enough. my god they're <U+0096> they're still raw inside. by the time they're cooked through the outside will be burned.
that actually makes sense. you might've... saved my balls.
it's a little early. (he hesitates then tastes the ragout and gives a positive nod) did you even go to bed last night?
doesn't this seem a little bit obsessive?
yeah. i thought you were trying to tone that down.
(taking a taste from the spoon) good choice. so so good. (house grins and wilson takes another taste)
it's 8:00 in the morning.
no frittata? no bombolini?
you were enjoying cooking.
you said it was keeping your mind off the pain.
and your leg?
came home for lunch.
she was busy.
you know you can talk to me. is that my laundry?
you said that this morning.
i broke my toilet this morning.
i blocked the intake valve so i could collect some of house's urine. cuddy he was barely limping.
the urine was clean for vicodin. it did however contain strange epithelial cells. further analysis showed they were from a labrador retriever.
we know you're back on vicodin.
why is your leg better?
my godson made me that mug.
how was your first day of school?
how was it with cuddy?
it tastes fine this way.
i think you're losing your sense of mind.
no it's the <U+0096> [he bats house's hand down before he can change the tv settings then grabs the remote.] are you inventing some big medical mystery here? because if you're imagining things again...
yes shoes garlic <U+0096> i am vampire sookie.
my downstairs neighbor after you moved in started complaining about the extra noise and the cooking smells.
i don't want you making things worse. he's on the condo board and i'm trying to get the back garden renovated.
he's not only a total jerk. he's a decorated war hero who lost an arm in vietnam. i mean there's no winning with this guy.
it's just a wild coincidence that he thought you were a rude jerk.
you talked! [he drops his head into his hand.] all i wanted was to sip morning espresso next to a peaceful burbling fountain.
i don't have anything on him. i don't want anything on him.
mee krob is from thailand.
what did you do? why do you think he's faking?
you broke in?
you did break in.
why would he fake being a veteran?
normally we'd all tell the amputee to go screw himself.
thank you for trying to help me out with my neighbor. now forget the vietnam stuff.
but you won't because you'll be too busy writing him a letter of apology and dropping it at his door without knocking at his door.
which is the point. it's easy to be nice to people you like. but being nice to people you hate that's a skill. do it.
you broke into his apartment?
i wish i believed you.
i already did. he was going to press charges. but i promised him you'd leave.
i'll explain it to your psychiatrist but yeah. you got to go somewhere else. [house nods and jiggles his keys.] house i know when things go wrong usually you just double down and get more involved but here you could go to jail. and i truly believe that you've changed enough to know this is the right thing.
my neighbor called. he sounded happy.
even nicer he's approving the garden expansion.
and even more nicer he's not going to press charges. even if you don't move out. what did you do to him?
i think i want to give you the benefit of the doubt.
you're welcome. [looks confused.] for what?
that's just the way i am but still don't know what you're talking about.
obviously house decided he needs you more than he's...
and he'd certainly never lie.
[looks surprised.] really? it was that bad?
you're good for both of them but foreman's not my best friend.
maybe. but with you on the team he'd be better. he needs someone... who doesn't need him. you're the only one he's never really been able to suck into his crazy house vortex. keeps him grounded. his ego in check.
i figured you'd only stay if house asked... and i knew he would eventually.
this is a great job. maybe even better now that house is at least trying to have real relationships with people. [thirteen stares at him.] i said trying.
the job you love doesn't matter? don't throw it all away just because of a bad break-up.
i just confessed. [house looks up at him.] i told thirteen i was the one who canceled the plane ticket.
you mean why did i confess or why did i do it?
you want her to stay because you want her back or because foreman does? [sits down in front of house's desk.]
because you're not as big a jerk as everyone thinks.
no you're not.
no you didn't.
you are a jerk.
so you did it for her?
so you did it for you?
so you did it for foreman?
why don't you just admit that you like having her around? she's good for you. you need her.
no you weren't.
what?
oh god! i'll be back in ten.
this is ridiculous. i'm converting the study into a bedroom.
i didn't expect you to be here this long.
do you really need to deconstruct this?
[resigned] okay yes you do.
okay. i am not ready to transition from my dead girlfriend's shrine to your... morning glory. i'll have a mattress delivered and set up for you in the tabernacle. i just need it tuesdays for animal sacrifices. [he leaves making a two-handed stop gesture and shuddering as he goes. house smiles.] oh man!
you okay?
[voice over through the wall] answer the door house. it's got to be for you.
[voice over] it's the door!
are you sleeping out here?
with bedding?
if you need to talk... if-if you need more help <U+0097>
i'm right here.
i had pea soup today. you'd love my breath right now. i didn't get a chance to run tonight. house is... is having issues. i missed you a lot today. all i want to do is... [sighs] you know.
no breakfast?
[turning worried] what happened?
is that why you've been acting so weird? is that why you quit?
i'm sure there's a rational explanation. the wind? a neighbor's tv?
okay.
you're the smartest guy i know. if you haven't thought of it it doesn't exist. i'll drive you over. i just need to make some tea first. [he turns to the counter.]
[dropping something on the counter and turning back annoyed] that you're an ass? yeah. you overheard me talking to my dead girlfriend and thought to yourself what kind of fun can i have with this?
i miss her. talking to her makes me feel better. you don't.
[to amber] you see he really is getting better.
we're leaving this afternoon for the conference on pharmacology and public policy.
we discussed this. it's been on your calendar for weeks.
think of it as a vacation. nice healthy adirondack air. or not. i don't care. you're coming with.
house when you moved in i promised your therapist i'd be here for you. i can't be here if i'm there unless you're there too. so it's not a discussion.
busy right now.
yeah.
unfortunately no. he's in a lot of pain.
you found out cuddy's going.
we leave in two hours.
i'm right here. i'm right here joseph.
why are you reading my program guide? it's not like you plan on attending any of the presentations.
and that was wrong?
and you're wondering why i wouldn't want to repeat that experience?
cuddy's going.
if you want her... ask her out.
like the frog in gradually boiling water.
what could possibly go wrong?
(answering his cell phone) hello? yeah. thanks for telling me.
my patient joseph schultz.
yeah. i just wish i had been there. didn't hear you come in last night.
(shutting his laptop which was open on the table) things didn't go as you planned?
(he closes a file and reaches behind him to put it in his briefcase) well either she just wasn't ready for that or maybe she was just surprised and didn't know how to react. what are you doing?
i didn't want your notes before and i don't want 'em now. (he gets up and leaves)
i know what you're gonna say. i'm not insane. doctors are rarely
someone needs to say what life is really like now for people who are dying. what doctors have to go through the decisions we have to make. alone. without guidance.
i'd be telling the truth. i'd be saying what we're all thinking.
we're all murderers. we just don't have the guts to admit <U+0096>
if there's one thing i've learned from you it's that i should do what i think is right and not worry about the consequences. (he walks back up the dock)
isn't the mrsa panel going on?
yeah well discussions of urinary catheterization will do that to me too.
oh...how did you like '80s night?
i was being subtle about it. you left suddenly. i know house can be a little much sometimes...
he's trying.
those are gonna show up on my credit card at seven bucks a bag. there's an all-you-can-eat buffet downstairs.
yes you can sit here running up my hotel bill or you can go get the woman of your dreams.
i just spoke with cuddy. she doesn't think you're reliable. and you will remain friend-zoned until that changes.
yeah but you could make the first step.
today a babysitter. what are you thinking about?
you see? seriously. i know this is out of your comfort zone but don't scheme. don't <U+0096> just do the deed <U+0096>
i'm sorry. i didn't mean <U+0096> i didn't mean... i didn't mean... (he looks rather disoriented) you drugged me. she's better off without you.
(barely conscious) hello?
huh?
(yelling) house! (talking to foreman again) he's not here.
(looking at his watch) oh no! i was supposed to be giving a paper five minutes ago.
okay...okay...
hello? uh...i don't know what department i want. uh i need...pants.
hey. before i start shouting foreman says they're looking at rickettsia.
what the hell? you think that little shout-out is gonna make me forget that you drugged me hid my pants stole my speech?
that was my paper. you don't ask what i want you ignore my wishes you drug me.
oh really? i should be thanking you?
you stepped over the line. this was not your decision.
of course we can't even argue on my schedule.
when you do what i did it's not enough to tell yourself you did nothing wrong. you need to hear it from someone else. if not god or society a friend. otherwise you go crazy. what you said to me up there... thank you. you're a good friend. cuddy should know that.
someone could have recognized you.
perlmutter?
two cheeseburgers and two large fries. there are a thousand people in the world who want to be on your staff but you're going after the four who don't.
and your life is simple? you went all the way up to the medical conference to cozy up to cuddy. instead she's dating one of two people in the world you think of as a friend. there's no way that's not devastating.
yeah the sort in which your imaginary tryst landed you in a mental hospital.
i suppose throwing yourself into your work isn't the worst thing you could do. [takes his food and heads for the tables.]
do you have any idea what's going on with house?
it's called stalking.
that's a shame since you're the one who triggered this. [she give him an i don't believing you look.] what do you see in lucas anyway?
did you think house wouldn't find out? you could've at least told me so i wouldn't have coached him on how to prove his worthiness to you.
the answer has nothing to do with the question.
why do you need three of these doctors?
it has nothing to do with them being good. you think they're idiots half the time but they're comfortable. you feel abandoned by cuddy so you're reaching out to people you know for comfort.
cuddy's right. maybe just maybe if i don't play along you'll realize you can't solve a deeper problem with a surface solution.
[he thinks for a moment then realizes what house means.] you're kidding. all of them?
who was the <U+0096>
wow. i can't believe it. i mean really. i can't... believe it. you were right house. good for you.
i had a dentist appointment.
you see. this is why i don't answer your urgent pages. because they're not urgent pages.
of course.
albeit a selfish mean-spirited childish raison. [he rings for the elevator.]
[entering the elevator with house] how you manage to elevate your narcissism to beneficence is masterful.
house don't.
i have no idea where cuddy's sister lives.
you can't honestly think i would help you with this.
happy holiday. [leaves]
this is a three-hour drive. have you considered the possibility that this is a fake address?
if she's smart.
this cannot end well.
please tell me you're talking about a medical procedure.
and you think she'll start dating you? i'm sure she hates you.
[sighs] ah what a shame.
i meant for you.
you're right. it's his fault because he's stupid.
of course. windtalker code for we never split up. house she told you multiple times she wants nothing to do with you.
either that or she didn't want to appease you.
dare i ask what you're gonna do?
and you're okay with that?
good for you.
oh. how the...
you know most people go for the hardwood or carpeting. i think guitars and garbage work just as well.
hmm. that's very eco-friendly of you. how about keeping down on the noise pollution?
i'm not going to work today. i'm going hunting. (wilson holds out his hands to stop house from commenting then turns to go back into his bedroom) after i sleep in.
ah. ah.
he's my friend.
(clearly annoyed) seems to be what i'm attracted to.
jim is short for james. now go away lim. (house closes the door and wilson goes back to sleep)
oh yeah. oh yeah. i nailed that tree. (he pumps the gun to reload) maple syrup for dinner. we should have got a guide.
on the other hand we are holding weapons and have no idea what we're doing. fun.
so i should stop thinking about german porn.
yeah. well at least it's cold and my new boots leak.
(patting tucker on the shoulder) all right let's see how many more turkeys we can miss. (tucker grins)
(he groans and looks back at tucker) yeah this will work.
(jumping) what the hell?
i don't know.
good news. head ct doesn't show any signs of a stroke.
i cannot believe how much you've grown up in five years. (he glances at tucker who is shaking his head) she's... she's not emily.
it's good to meet you.
i checked blood counts and blood cell morphologies. everything is normal.
hopefully something innocuous. there's a doctor i can speak to who's great... (he pauses looking intently as ashley) who's great at diagnosing...
(touching the side of his mouth) sorry that cold sore how long have you had that?
that cold sore is caused by a virus. assuming you guys kiss the virus could transfer infect your spine and cause the paralysis. it's a disease called transverse myelitis.
it's great news. i'll get you a room and start you on acyclovir.
(proudly) i just had a house moment. diagnosed transverse myelitis from a cold sore. how cool is that? patients really eat that crap up.
how do you even--
did you look past the first page of the file? no aml cells anywhere. i did the blood smears myself.
and your magical leukemia detector is more powerful than a flow cytometer?
are you serious?
fine. 100 bucks.
is tucker settling in?
hoo-ah. next patient on deck.
(they walk down the hall to del's room) oh that's all right. last time they were here they painted my tie.
you're almost ready to go home. you feeling okay?
in oncology familiar pain means all is well.
yeah. (wilson's pager beeps) i heard jesse and zeke were by earlier.
sorry del i gotta run.
how are they doing?
no game-winning hits? no aced report cards? no school plays?
(moving closer to the bed) are you depressed?
you've had cancer for a long time. it's never stopped you from bragging about the grandkids.
yeah. i don't want you to get alarmed but sometimes depression can be a sign that something else is going on. i'm just gonna order a couple of extra tests. okay? (he pats del on the shoulder reassuringly)
what's going on?
it might mean his foot fell asleep. it might mean nothing. (to ashley) could you give us a few minutes?
it means the medicine i gave you is not working. i just might have to hit it harder. i'm going to add ribavirin to your treatment. (he turns to leave)
so the brave face is just for ashley.
don't worry. once you've had cancer recurrence is your biggest fear. i get it. i've looked at this thing every which way there is. that's not
you can't do it?
of course. (wilson leaves the room)
exactly how serious does it have to be to justify you coming to see your father? no. i'm sorry. i just--i'd rather you regretted coming than regretted not coming. thanks emily. (he hangs up the phone)
oh well he's made a mess of his personal life. but physically i think he's gonna be fine. transverse myelitis.
what is this? is house my overseer now?
well house has got 100 bucks on cancer. so unless you want in
as far as i know.
you're moving in with lucas?
you're bonnie's friend. you know how to reach her. and yet instead of calling her you come and seek my permission. you want my blessing and implicitly house's blessing.
good. (he turns abruptly and leaves cuddy standing in the hallway looking upset)
should be soon.
started smoking again?
(hugging melissa) how are you?
yeah. he's okay. i'm not a big fan of this coughing though.
(moving quickly) no. whatever's causing this is affecting more than his nerves. i need a crash cart in here!
don't you guys have a dying mexican crooner to attend to?
wow that's... very strange. where's house?
actually... maybe it would be better if i talked to you guys alone. house and i have a bet about one of my patients. you guys mind making him 100 bucks poorer?
43-year-old male in remission from leukemia presents with left arm paralysis and trouble breathing.
thanks. that's very helpful.
ct ruled it out. i thought it was tm so i started him on antivirals but he got worse.
bacteria would move much faster than this. he'd be dead already.
actually if aspergillus fungus balls took root in his lungs and spread to his spine it would explain both. (thirteen hands him the file) thanks. (he hurries out of the room)
the treatment involves riddling the infected area with bb-sized pellets of antifungal meds.
no. we have a slightly more humane delivery system. but we do have to open you up. it is surgery. and like any operation there are risks.
because of the rapid progression i don't think we have time to test or try ivs.
definitely.
of course.
good. dr. chase will be in here soon to get you set for the or.
(to sandy) page dr. chase to tucker's room for a surgery consult. and can you get me--
is everything all right?
what did you tell him?
hello saul. i heard you were looking for me.
(adjusting the infusion pump) today's your lucky day. i happen to be a sleep specialist.
nice hiding spot.
she was checking up on tucker thanks to you.
like what? something about you? something you could interpret as being about you? an anagram maybe? it'd be great if you could play hide and seek somewhere else. my patient--
tucker doesn't have cancer.
i'm late for surgery.
let's take this outside. mr. koplovitz just got to sleep.
outside.
procedure should take about an hour. i'll be observing the entire time.
(chuckling) well she's... at her age... she's not supposed to be dealing with issues of life and death.
why did you leave melissa?
there's nothing to talk about.
yes you're fine with them dating. but moving in together is a whole other level of commitment.
oh for god's sake house don't do this to yourself. it's a loft. it has no deeper meaning than open-space living arrangement.
yeah. or she has a baby.
yep clearly you're fine with it.
62-year-old african-american man with lymphoma now in remission. i did a ct and found a small lesion on the upper lobe of his left lung.
during a routine follow-up i realized the patient was depressed.
thanks. the treatment indicate--
it's a conference room with glass walls. you thought i'd be alone?
you have acute lymphoblastic leukemia. a.l.l.
no. it's different. it's a second leukemia. probably caused by the chemotherapy we gave him five years ago.
this is not the end. tests show that the cancer is limited to your brain. that's good news.
the blood-brain barrier separates the blood in your head from the blood in your body. keeps the cancer bottled up. we can go for a cure.
90% chance of cure.
steady decline. but six months of a good quality life.
no. chemotherapy. we can go at this with drugs alone.
we begin by surgically planting a shunt so we can get the drugs directly into your brain. i already booked the or.
we get it out of your head and you walk out of here paralysis gone and cancer-free.
we also need you to sign a health care proxy. if something goes wrong in surgery someone needs to be appointed to make decisions for you.
very remote.
house your guy's not bleeding out of his eyes either.
your case is no more urgent than mine.
it's okay. you can talk about the--the paperwork in the prep area.
okay anything?
can you feel this?
how about here?
(moving up to tucker's arm) where is everybody?
ashley?
(testing tucker's arm with the hammer) i thought she was off today.
okay. move your fingers.
(sighing) the chemo's not working.
no. it means the chemo from your first round of treatment has made the leukemia resistant.
maybe not.
it means you're not listening to me.
the problem with that technique is i have no idea what point you're making.
it could swamp out the resistance of the cancer cells.
of course it does. it's exactly what you would do.
and a table is a table.
i can handle it. (he turns and walks away)
it is.
hey!
i'm gonna need to run some tests. (tucker looks worried)
the cancer's gone. but over half his hepatocytes are dead.
(turning to face house) he needs a new liver.
the double dose of chemo got rid of your cancer. but it also trashed your liver. if i don't find you a new liver you've only got about 24 hours left.
your father's been moved to the top of the transplant list. but all we really can do is wait.
i'm sorry mel. you and emily don't match tuck's blood type. and neither does ashley. so a live liver donation is out. the best thing to do is just what you've been doing. be together.
house i know it's raining out there in the hallway but<U+0097>
how bad?
why wasn't i paged?
where is she?
how do you get the call that your brother's dead and then run out the door? oh--oh--oh that reminds me i-i had dry cleaning to pick up.
not yet. you okay?
what are you planning?
and i don't believe you. how are you gonna punish her for dating lucas?
are you really okay?
wow. okay. see that's very adult of you.
which is i think the definition of adulthood.
and i'm sure they would want him to do good with his last act in this world.
(trying not to sound too desperate) it will save my patient's life.
(interrupting) house.
(interrupting again) house it's too late. the liver's started to degrade. it's no longer viable for transplant.
i'm sorry. we knew the risks.
there's nothing more we can do.
i'm your doctor.
of course not.
tucker it's... i can't.
every now and again i'd like to come home without getting interrogated.
(going into the kitchen) getting a drink. what--why are all my frozen dinners thawing on the counter?
(he leans on the doorway and pauses) tucker wants me to donate a lobe of my liver to him.
yeah. i was out marinating my liver in alcohol to get it ready for the transplant. yeah.
it's my fault. it is my fault! i gave him too much chemo.
and killed him in the process.
oh no--not legally. ethically. ethically!
(angrily) boy you are-- you willfully ruined my food and have taken over my living room because you already think i'm a doormat! you know what... (he takes house's test tube jello shots out of the freezer and dumps them in the trash) you're wrong. (he pushes some of house's books off of a table and onto the floor) (house actually looks contrite) clean up your stuff and get out. (he smacks the doorframe as he walks toward his bedroom) you're wrong. (he goes into his bedroom and slams the door)
how's tucker?
thanks. let me know as soon as tucker takes a turn for the worse. i want to be there.
see that small spot at the top of the lung? that was then. this is now. spot's gone.
yeah. it's not too impressive is it?
yeah. fortunately we caught it early. it's gonna be okay.
i want to donate a lobe of my liver to tucker.
i'm donating a small portion of--
and until i run out of excess organs why shouldn't i do everything i can to help them?
(he laughs pauses then faces cuddy) why did you make me the head of oncology?
yeah caring. by your own criteria a strength and not a weakness.
this is coming out of friendship. i have a friend
call me a doormat-- get it all out of your system-- but i'm doing it.
he's my friend.
right. how selfish of me not to have considered your possible future needs.
i'm not here for an argument house.
no. the operation is in two hours and i'd like you to be there with me.
what-- why?
how you feeling?
i feel good. (he notices a packed duffle bag sitting on the bed) sending out your laundry?
up by your new house not near your old house.
(trying to hide his disdain) i see.
(wheeling himself out) actually it's james.
i still feel good about what i did.
ah. i'm a little disappointed.
you can't change a table.
bonnie.
bonnie told me what cuddy bid.
(wandering over to the kitchen area) we do need a bigger refrigerator. she hurt my friend. she should be punished.
i'm changing our address to a p.o. box.
(hoisting himself up onto the kitchen counter) a problem delayed is a problem denied.
bonnie. i'll take it.
so the best coffee's at geena's and the best pizza is at gino's.
and how's the drycleaner on the corner?
good to know.
uh favorite sushi place. maybe we could get dinner sometime.
you mean house?
[turning his head back and forth confused] h<U+0096>he's not my boyfriend.
[laughing] we're not gay.
i'm sorry. can i talk to you for a second?
[clears throat and whispers] everyone in our building thinks we're gay. [he clears his throat again.]
eventually is not when i want to go out with the cute girl in 3-b.
she didn't believe me. she sidestepped my dinner invite.
we were chatting having fun. there was definitely a spark.
pants that hang like a skirt. [house and eddie stare at him.] just...
i ran into nora this morning. she told me about your evita listening party.
you were supposed to tell her that we're straight.
[smiling] you're doing this to mess with me.
by pretending you're gay and in a relationship with me?
i can't decide if this plan is more despicable or illogical.
that's... quite a commitment you've made to jumping the girl i'd like to date.
i saw her first.
we're guys. it's a code.
she's never gonna fall for it.
oh great. cable guy came.
hello.
well... i think i might... [briefcase plunks down] have a little... kung pao.
house is lying to you.
i'm not i... look around you. does this really look like a place gay men live? a-apart from the poster. those stools are our only furniture. there are no window treatments.
look house hates musicals and fashion and meringue. this whole thing is an act designed to earn your trust... [deep breath] in order to sleep with you.
[relieved] finally.
house.
i'm here because...
i love this man. and i am not wasting another moment of my life denying that. [he pulls something out of his overcoat pocket and kneels down next to the table. the something is a ring box which he opens.] gregory house... will you marry me?
i'm sorry about your patient.
ran into nora in the elevator. she no longer thinks we're gay. now she thinks we're mendacious dirt bags.
i kind of like it. [house stares at him.] unlike this sofa.
[takes a deep breath and sings]
i'll stop if you get rid of the sofa.
[vocalizing the orchestration as well]
(sighing) you can't sleep in your own office? or bedroom for that matter?
so tell him no.
it's too complicated for you to tell someone you don't like to screw off? that's practically your hobby.
(taking off his coat and putting on a labcoat) and how did you hurt him?
you plagiarized? doesn't sound like you.
so you're in this mental hospital delving into your subconscious and this is who you choose to apologize to?
of all the people in the world you've hurt?
um... i'm in there and so is cuddy.
(grabbing a patient file and heading for the door) yes it's hilarious. great to see what a success your therapy was. (he leaves closing the door behind him)
the crazy ones you sent trying to get me to make you feel better about destroying your classmate's life? no i never got those.
(in poor spanish) <c9>l es un doctor de medici<f3>n (he is a doctor of medical.)
how pissed was he?
if you feel guilty you should do something to help. you are responsible.
thanks.
what?
if there's any karma in all this he's probably happier than you are.
that is absolutely not what i said.
what did <U+0096>
hmm...
(entering the office) what are you doing?
wait a minute is that actually a check for him?
of all the people to go the extra mile for why this guy?
why not cuddy? you never apologized after you defaced her photo.
no it's because cuddy actually means something to you which makes it much harder to apologize.
forget the photo. house she was in love with you. (house licks and seals the envelope) and all she got in return was abuse. for years you toyed with her emotions.
the fact that you still can't admit it just proves my point.
no help the guy whatever... i'm just pointing out that it's much easier to soothe your guilt by throwing money at a stranger than by making amends to a person you actually care about.
what are you doing?
this is not okay. use your own bathroom.
the guy who signs the loan gets to pick the bedrooms. stay out of mine.
oh!
ho-wah!
house!
[running out of the bathroom] okay. oh! oh!
are you out of your mind?
all i did was ban you from my tub. whatever happened to proportional response?
that... thing... broke tiles gashed the walls and pooped everywhere. expect a bill for repairs... and payback.
the exterminator charged $250 to get the opossum out of there and the contractor estimates $1500 to fix the bathroom. and why are you jerking foreman around?
your motives always run deeper than simple fun.
not buying it.
i don't think there is an evil plan. you regret not having a relationship with your own family and you don't want to see foreman go down that same path. i think you're actually being nice.
then i'll come back.
[on his way out] your boss is secretly a very nice man.
why isn't your minion fetching your lunch?
that's very demeaning.
you're escalating to prove i was wrong about you being nice which you would only do if i was right.
oh. [exhales] what are you doing in the dark?
jeez. what happened to your face?
it's karmic justice but i didn't do it.
usually that precedes you walking away with purpose so...
and then i say...?
i already have proof of that <U+0096> the fact that i didn't do it.
whoa. wait. wait a minute. wait a minute.
braless under like a sweater or like a <U+0096> like a <U+0096>
so someone is breaking into our place just to screw with us?
i'm so tired. it was exciting till about 2:00 a.m. now it's just torture.
this is the escalation isn't it? keeping me up all night nothing happens then you keep me up all night again tomorrow. this is your retaliation.
maybe you napped all day.
no. no you did not. you created empirical proof that i didn't prank you selling me on the notion that you didn't prank me. maybe you self-pranked.
is that cut on your cheek even real?
[getting up] okay. i'm going to bed.
oh! house! [running back into the living room] the flat screen!
ah. ah. [he gives up and looks at house.] you would never sacrifice the flat screen.
[leaning against the kitchen area] last night the fire sprinklers flooded our apartment. and before that i found an opossum in my bathtub.
house i think you're getting off topic here.
well it should stop now that marcus left.
hey hey i-i-i'm <U+0096>
i heard foreman and his brother are trying to work things out.
it's nice of you. you didn't provoke marcus to quit so the pranks would stop. you were becoming the common enemy they could bond over. you are the diabolical yet benevolent puppet master.
uh-huh. and how are we gonna get back at lucas?
[smiling] i win. [leaves]
how's it going?
rachel's gonna be fine i'm sure whoever he or she is deserved it and we're not going bankrupt. are we?
they'd never fire you.
they might fire you.
you try lucas?
you in a fight?
you're asking a guy who paid full sticker price for his last car. you ask house? (cuddy gives him an are you crazy look) he's a master manipulator who always gets what he wants.
what are you doing tonight?
it's pathetic. you divide your nights between porn and the discovery channel.
okay that was a gift from a patient and it happens to be great exercise. i mean who rents porn anymore? can't you get this stuff on the internet?
come out with me tonight. i'm going speed dating.
you need to meet somebody. this way you meet 20 somebodies.
yeah. dozens of women just waiting to be hit on. your odds of a happy ending are nearly as good as staying home and watching porn.
you need to dive back into the pool.
[looking at chase] you kind of are.
not the whole relationship. just the beginning.
i'm an oncologist.
[resigned] do-do you wanna talk about it?
thank god. for you i mean. obviously.
have you tried offering a reward?
i returned them to the store.
it's no trouble. i had to stop next-door for my dry cleaning anyway.
because if i did happen to bring a woman home last night i wanted it to be a porn-free zone.
i'm sorry. horribly horribly sorry. i thought you'd... watched them all. [he walks away.]
you reading your patient's blog?
[sitting] you should. could be some clues.
she mentions you.
you're an unseen presence like the wizard of oz.
you know... i can explain what happened.
you have <U+0096> you have it here?
oh god. [the person nearest the camera turns. it's a very young wilson.] oh god! okay first that's not me. it's not <U+0096> mostly not <U+0096> [he starts again.] i was <U+0096> i was in college. [young wilson moves toward and then past the camera smiling.] i don't <U+0096> my roommate was minoring in film.
that's not me.
[desperate] that's not me. that's not <U+0096> i mean you can see it's not me. he added extra scenes so he could release it as a porno.
[sighing] oh boy. [he starts to leave. house continues watching the video intently. at the door wilson turns back.]
no one <U+0096> hey look at me <U+0096> no one can know about this.
sorry. [he continues walking.]
[turns away from her and says ominously] get my vertigo poster back.
okay.
i'm looking to get something on house.
don't. my mission is to find something that house would not like to see made public and make it public.
house would never leave anything secret around the condo. but you've worked in the same office with him on and off for years. think back. were there ever any odd phone calls or visitors from the past?
what? what? [pause] what?
the gold <U+0096> the <U+0096> by henry james?
okay. i don't <U+0096> i don't understand.
maybe he's reading a version with a smaller font.
that's a good point.
[thoughtfully] huh.
well it's a good cover choice. it's not like anyone would pick it up.
don't do that to yourself. [he opens a drawer and shuffles through some stuff.] what the hell?
giving him a computer is like giving plutonium to dr. no.
[reading over chase's shoulder] step by step: sermons for everyday life?
why would he hide it? he reads the bible he reads the koran. he says he likes to know what mistakes people are making.
i don't know.
you know what? [takes the book jacket from the desk and the book from chase] don't mention this to anyone.
why are you reading a book by a unitarian minister?
i'm serious. this<U+0096>this is messed up.
no you've never treated a patient with this name. i looked it up.
no it wasn't. no one you respect would give you this and expect it to be helpful.
of sermons. for anyone else spiritually enlightening. for you it's practically a psychotic break. [house drinks the milk straight from the carton and tosses it. he leans heavily on the counter.] i know that you have trouble sometimes with the pain without the vicodin <U+0096> is that it? are you so out of options you're looking for answers in what you consider irrationality?
are you all right because you're back on vicodin?
i know this means something. [he waves the book.]
i picked up one of the copies of the book that chase left in the lounge.
first time i'd seen the real dust jacket. the inside back flap there's a picture of the author. imagine how surprised i was when i recognized him. your biological father is a minister?
i don't get it. i mean okay he was a friend of the family. you'd only known him when you were a kid. but if you wanted to meet him now get an idea of what he's like why not just go talk to him?
you're capable of it.
please. you didn't read this. you studied it. why? all your life you've thought this [waves the book] was crap. you can't suddenly turn around and-and build a whole new worldview based on crap.
you better not be faking this just to get out of a tough conversation.
why would it make more sense for you to read your father's book than to go talk with him?
you weren't looking for some big catharsis. you didn't want to hug the guy. you just wanted to know how his head works. how he thinks.
because you're not ordinary house. you're way out there on the fringe somewhere. i'm your best friend and half the time i don't understand you. you're alone. been alone your whole life.
when you read that book you were hoping that somewhere underneath all that talk of god there would be a way of thinking a mind that you could recognize. you wanted what we all want.
to look across the gulf and know there's someone else like you. at least tell me this <U+0096> did you find something there?
would you mind at least putting a napkin under your jelly toast?
(putting on his overcoat) yes you will.
why don't you go get a table?
you have my permission. pick out whatever you want.
(he picks his keys off the counter and packs his briefcase) no it would be a reflection of the fact that the guy who's been mooching off of me for as long as i can remember isn't a complete ingrate.
i have furnished a bunch of homes.
you want to eat off something? fine. move your piano in here and eat off that.
of a dining table? you know they don't actually come to life when you put a knob off your bedpost on them.
you don't really believe that. you just don't want to do the shopping.
huh.
(coming into the room) what do you think?
piece of cake you give them money they give you furniture. not bad huh?
(clearing his throat) what did you do with the furniture?
you told me to buy it.
so what? we had a table chairs <U+0097>
fine. i'll hire a decorator.
i'll hire a male decorator.
i like not doing this.
yes. uh i was wondering if you could tell me a little bit about this dining table.
so you're paid by commission?
thank you so much.
okay that's <U+0097> that's not the one. (he gets up immediately)
i'm really just looking for a nice dining room table.
yes i do that sometimes but... right now why am i daring?
wait this is a patio table <U+0097> for outside? (he walks away from gabriella)
no i'm pacing your office because i'm physically incapable of buying furniture.
(hesitating guiltily) yeah. uh it needs some new <U+0097>
i'm supposed to find me.
so what do you think?
why can't that be me <U+0097> the wuss who loves decorators?
okay. it's not. but don't return it. i can't keep doing this.
you're gonna have to buy your own cape.
truth or dare?
i was kidding. i'm sure we can find something interesting to talk about without relying on some juvenile game.
[sighs] truth.
all right. have you ever had a threesome?
[surprised] you haven't?
well yeah.
wait. you've had a foursome?
[pumping both fists in] oh!
how did your dad react when you came out to him?
um truth.
now? no.
um when you were dating foreman...
what?
that's the whole point of this game <U+0097> something personal preferably embarrassing.
you see this is your problem. you act like you're so liberal and open but you are the least <U+0097>
yes nudity. i want you to show your breasts to taub.
well i thought showing me your breasts would be a little exploitative.
hey if you're saying you won't do it...
truth.
[shakes head] no nudity now or in the future.
from who? [she looks through the window in the partition. he follows her gaze and sees the cashier.] oh come on.
hey dar-daria. [he read her nametag.]
could you cook me up a chicken sandwich?
it's important medically. dr. hadley needs a high-protein meal right now. she doesn't like to talk about it but she has hypoproteinemia.
yeah. that's cold.
well we could give her cold protein whose uptake enzymes haven't been activated as long as you don't mind her risking liver and kidney failure and eventual death. but hey it's worth it so you don't have to flip on the grill.
shut up.
it's not your fault.
no tea party?
so he just visits his heterosexual healthy daughter and you go out to dinner and a movie and talk about your garden?
you can't suppress your life for his convenience.
you're right. that woman the woman i'm not involved with her name is sam carr. but in 1990 and 1991 it was sam wilson.
no my mother. yes my ex-wife. ex number one. she friended me a few weeks ago. we started emailing. it turns out she's recently divorced and i wanted to ask her out.
i just asked sam to dinner.
you gonna tell your dad?
hotel? you said he was staying at your apartment. was there any truth in anything you said?
good night remy.
you were home last night?
i told you to stay out of my bathroom.
she was naked in the kitchen?
why the hell were you naked in the kitchen?
no.
i don't have time for this.
(picking up his labcoat) house!
(sighing) people change house.
listen i know that in your own demented way you think you're looking out for me. but i have this.
for what?
hey. i can't believe i'm about to say this. sam
no she didn't dump me. she wants to get to know you better.
it goes against all my instincts but i said all right.
she thinks i was hiding her from you.
i don't want her to know.
yeah.
tonight venezia 8:00.
house listen. i know you're worried about me and i also know that that kind of unselfishness doesn't come naturally to you. but i don't want your help. i don't need your help. just come to dinner and be your usual selfish self.
trust me there is no just when house is involved.
(following her gaze) that.
ignore him. he's just upset that we're having fun.
hey.
first time he was naked. the second time he brought a transvestite prostitute to dinner. overall it could have been worse.
that's your reaction?
nudity prostitute...
house said something to you didn't he?
it is a little crazy though. i mean... isn't it? i mean... things seem to be going great. but they seemed to be going great 12 years ago. the good things are still good. she's still smart funny gets me. and she's less competitive. either she's changed or i've changed. but either way... am i out of my mind?
(nodding) yeah.
(putting his coat mail and briefcase on the entry table) i'm sorry if i don't change i'm gonna feel like i'm at work all night.
is it a problem?
we will definitely not make the 7:30.
(as they kiss again) hmm.
shouldn't you be at the hospital?
we have plans.
(stopping sam from taking one) don't! house whatever it is that you're up to
here's to the internet.
well it wasn't just the internet.
exactly. and here we are.
well i need to go to the bathroom.
i mean is it safe to leave the two of you?
okay. i'll be right back.
(coming back into the room) well it's too late for the movie. wanna see what's on tv?
you know what would be perfect?
french toast tower.
it's my one vice. i'm keeping it.
yeah.
what?
clearly something. (we can hear the capitals.)
house on a list of your attributes there's nothing that even rhymes with coy.
it's not a big deal.
you're trying to get us to fight.
i should have known that you weren't done sabotaging this.
yeah. [he puts the bowl on the counter and starts replacing glasses on the top shelf in a mechanical way.]
sure.
would you mind using a coaster?
it's okay. (he smiles apologetically then he stops pretending and lets go). also it'd be great if you'd replace the toilet paper when you finish a roll. and when you load the dishwasher you can't put a big flat bowl on the bottom. (sam is taken aback). it traps the water so nothing on the top gets clean. and please don't throw banana peels in the bedroom trash.
you're probably not even aware of<U+0097>
because of the milk. you put it in the door. the body of the refrigerator is the coldest part. the temperature in the door fluctuates which decreases shelf life.
i just want clean dishes and unspoiled milk so we can all stay healthy.
can we just drop it?
i didn't ask you to.
i never said i was annoyed.
you served me with divorce papers in the middle of a medical conference in new orleans (gesturing). i threw a bottle into an antique mirror.
i loved you. i thought i was gonna be following you to baltimore remember? (he gets in lecturing mode). i called about apartments. i set up interviews.
maybe because i was working two jobs to support us.
i was killing myself so that you could take that non-paying internship<U+0097>
congratulations house. sam ended it.
or you could have stayed out of it. i could have kept my mouth shut been annoyed sometimes but i'd be happy because i'd still be with her. (house listens still playing with his red rubber band). now all i have is cold milk. (he starts to leave.)
yeah? (sam enters the room. she looks nervous.)
hey.
me too. i shouldn't have said<U+0097>
i'm trying. (he gets up and approaches her.) i always thought that i was keeping the peace but i was just resenting you and giving you a reason to leave.
is it okay if we don't give house the credit?
and (he puts down some more cards. house enters the room and looks at them.)
hey.
(kissing her shoulder) happy time.
just think of this as a dream.
i said a dream not a nightmare.
sound asleep. (their kissing grows more passionate)
(giving house a dirty look) hmm.
(hanging up the phone) i was telling a 33-year-old woman that she has breast cancer.
how do you know?
i'm doing it to help you.
i've been spending more time with sam. i know it's been hard on you. i figured if you had some company<U+0097>
then consider it helping our neighbor's four-year-old.
nothing. i just told them you might be feeling down and it was in their self-interest to keep you company. (house doesn't believe him) 100 bucks foreman held out for 2. (house looks offended) house i'm worried about you. you could have ended up in jail or worse.
fine i did it for me for my relationship out of pure self-interest.
you'll do it?
thank you.
maybe. but how bad can a night out at a lesbian bar be?
sounds like you had fun last night.
i believe foreman. and they had fun with you. what happened?
you're serious.
you weren't that drunk. you managed to find your way into your own little bed last night.
no you want to blame this on the booze but that's easy. change is hard.
and cowardice is labeling what you don't want to change as innate.
(calling after him) i was winning this argument.
sam's moving in.
i was just wondering what your plans were.
in life. sam likes you
no. i want you to move out. i didn't know things with sam would happen so quickly. i d<U+0096>i don't want to make a mistake here. i've made a lot of mistakes.
[looking guilty] i could help you find a place.
nothing. i just thought you might want to find somewhere new somewhere
yes.
i told him your book was contaminated with anthrax spores. then i gave him $300. [holds up a slip of paper] the address of the buyer. [pause] maybe i was hasty in asking you to move out. why don't you stay with me and sam for a little while? there's no need to hurry things.
look the whole idea was that after mayfield you wouldn't be on your own. i can touch base with you a lot more easily if you're staying with me than<U+0097>
i want this to be the last serious relationship i ever have. i want this to be the one.
i'm worried about house.
i offered to find him a new place.
[voice over] sam and i just got him out of the condo.
[nodding] yeah.
i'm worried about house.
it's the first time he'll be on his own since mayfield.
okay. i guess this is really about me. it's just i feel like a jerk. sure sam and i are gonna want to be on our own eventually but i kind of sprang this on him. the right way would have been to just tell him to take as long as he needed that there's no hurry.
that matters in a friendship. i need to fix this.
(talking to house on his phone) having fun down there?
besides them moving in together? that's not enough for you?
it's probably her moral revulsion at housewarming gifts.
you actually think they're not moving in together?
what was that? you okay?
as far as i know.
