tchah! you got someplace to be?
wait. how do you want us to split up?
cutthroat bitch is your official title.
first thing we do is gang-bang the sucker. there's five of us. we can run dozens of tests. we don't need a theory; we just need brute force.
patient took a trip to thailand two weeks ago. (whispering) hey write bigger and angle the board more so they can see it.
house didn't say anything about taking turns. what's she testing you for?
seriously. i'm worried that if we don't know what she's given you there could be conflicts.
we need blood hair and stool. you poop and then you use the wooden sticks to collect the fecal matter and you rub it on the green box.
(pulling something out of a machine) you're too late. we already have our diagnosis.
and does house's computer have a built-in microphone?
are we officially unfired?
what are these points? is that how you're deciding who to fire?
now we're on the points system? what happened to men against women?
what do you mean forget the game?
he paged you?
uhh what file?
[whispers to taub] you wanna be bosley? bosley's like the asexual messenger boy.
[excited] we dig him up.
do you have a camera in here?
[whispering] if it's a cop run. security guard i say we take him down.
[resuming digging] been here over three hours.
[looks up dramatically] honey i'm home.
no there's not enough room to maneuver a crowbar down here.
what the hell?
[testily] ankles. they buried the guy the wrong way around.
it's not a new symptom. we always knew she had hallucinations.
in ukraine twenty years ago. good luck trying to get those records.
[pissed] you have to hold still!
[irritated] damn! hold her down!
i think that's third base.
those are peonies.
but i'm sure they're part of the rose family. [smiles]
food allergy. could have eaten shellfish or peanuts.
you're the favourite.
to get fired.
oh 1000 on amber.
must be another respiratory collapse. means this is our chance to prove laryngospasm.
we will right after we figure out...
brennan tilt his head back so i can get a straight shot.
blood cultures.
unless we soak him in warm water before we draw it.
the cultures were my idea.
she said her hoo hoo burned.
[from the other room.] could be an abscess.
you okay?
well if it was you he'd be inflicting pain on someone else so... [pulls the sheets off his bed. the patients legs look like his hand did earlier in the or.] i'd say he's mimicking whichever
heating blanket wasn't keeping him warm enough. ordered a whirlpool got his blood flowing. so far it's keeping his rash at bay.
we could repeat all the cultures maybe we just missed it.
we're going to use your spinal fluid to tell us where you lived.
not really. it's a poor substitute for an actual history and without...
[smiles.] yes it is. i need you to stay as still as possible. ignore the pain.
i'm not a masochist.
i know but i was responding to you responding to... never mind. i just like experience. if it's new it's interesting.
really i'm just easily bored.
i'm just about finished.
his rash is back. hot tub isn't hot enough to keep his body warm.
how long's he been out?
he's dry enough.
dry faster.
he'll get brain damage you need...
he's dry enough. clear. [shocks the patient and goes flying backwards.]
thank you.
you were just in there.
you think he'll mimic her if i'm in there with her?
so i'm going to get fired before her.
he needs the meds and the tub. just to keep him stable.
he'll be happy. loves hot tubs.
[mumbles.] hate hot tubs.
i hate...
no-one.
the guy likes warm swirling water. i didn't know that was diagnostic.
he has a temperature of 107.
or she carries a weapon.
[re: agent smith] who's your friend?
[hopefully] we can do that last part. she's never met house before has she? who's got a cane?
we're not gonna score any points with house if we solve this just by running your errands.
okay drum roll. [mock-consoling] lp is negative for meningitis. sorry cole.
[to thirteen] fat pad biopsy is... oh wait for it... [slowly opens the result] negative for amyloidosis! and thirteen goes down.
and for the gold...
[jumps down] turn to the last page. sed rate's 95. ana's weakly positive.
paralysis. uh... it's a new symptom? big white space on the board where it would fit? nice multicolored markers? [makes a writing motion]
i'll go to her place check out her fridge and pantry.
[his two cents] don't forget self-pitying.
and they haven't finished yet?
she had polio. we cured it with vitamin c.
are we going to be on tv?
i was doing drugs behind my parent's back at your age and i had a lot less reason to be.
not that your life must be miserable.
not that i am suggesting you should be doing drugs.
(desperately changing the subject) how's school going?
really? you're lucky. going to school was boring.
i had a rough time in school too. maybe not like you (makes a hand gesture like kenny's deformity) but uh well... i don't mean to compare our situations. (thinks a moment) actually i guess i am comparing our situations but only to show you how yours is worse.
you can edit that out right? so i don't look like an idiot?
yeah. is that new?
(quietly) i'm gonna start the test now.
studies showed no signs of scarring in kenny's heart.
the kid's got headaches. he's been popping acetaminophen like peanuts...
could be an artifact. we can redo it.
i'll set it up.
mallory weiss tear.
(earnestly into the camera) i always wear ties. i'm a doctor.
sorry.
(confused) liver failure plus heart block could be a mitochondrial disorder?
you're keeping him because he's a philanderer? where do i sign up?
[immediately puts his hand in the air as high as he can possibly get it.] ooh ooh ooh!
[slaps cole on the arm.] come on get up there man. get up there get up there! come on! [starts clapping everyone joins in.] come on! [cole reluctantly gets up and makes his way to the stage kutner gives him a slap on the backside as he's leaving.]
i have a sick guy. i saw this magician last night...
his heart stopped while he was hanging upside down in the water tank.
no history of heart disease. no angina. no...
about his history? er confirmed...
even if he was drowning it would have taken longer to set off a cardiac incident without some underlying problem...
if i'm right do i stay?
no valvular regurgitation no wall motion abnormalities no structural defects.
somewhat seriously. your legs?
shortness of breath?
i'm going to prep you for a transesophageal echo.
and i'm going to need to sedate you.
do it again. [finn just hands kutner's wallet back and lies back down.]
we found no apparent cause for the arrest. t.t.e. and t.e.e. revealed no...
we checked for clots we checked for...
yeah. [foreman looks at him.] i thought he was sick what was i supposed to do?
er didn't find anything.
right now it's just a theory. we don't even know if it's...
i'm sure there's no connection.
sorry most dying people don't really like to... not that you're dying. [pushes the button to move finn into the mri machine.]
yeah.
stabbing or throbbing? [pulls finn out of the machine. sees a big bruise on his side.] grey turner's sign. he's got internal bleeding.
[looking please with himself.] no trauma. could be liver disease vitamin k deficiency. the only thing we know for sure it's not... nothing.
hey. [starts to bend down to help.]
so you're not wearing any underwear?
we didn't get any images he started screaming as soon as i turned it on.
uh... i didn't even get a chance to sit down.
i'm not gloating.
no smirk this is how i look.
bag it.
of course not but it'd be irresponsible to leave it here. [sees a fortune telling machine.] you have a quarter?
how did cole get those panties off cuddy?
[still playing with the machine.] nah he'd have to have rabbits.
he passed out. ultrasound revealed bleeding around his heart we drained 100 cc's before it stopped.
he got scared right after a transfusion. tainted blood has been known to cause a sense of impending doom could also explain the dic.
he's seizing.
mr finn nod if you can hear me. [finn nods.] you had a grand mal seizure we're giving you liquids and an anticonvulsant just try to rest. [cole injects something into him.] pulse is dropping he's stabilising. [to cole.] you're not going to put me on the block are you?
that's cool. [pulls back finn's blanket.] his legs look swollen to you?
i babysat for you.
that's admirable though stupid. you shouldn't save the strongest. you should get rid of the strongest eliminate your competition which is definitely not me. and i'm your friend and how are you going to explain to your kid that i can't take him to the zoo next week because you got me fired?
flank pain his kidneys are shutting down. also... [whispers.] amber's a racist.
kidneys are shutting down. led to a sodium deficiency caused him to seize.
so kidney failure proves i'm right about the bad blood.
his major symptoms didn't start until after we transfused him.
not when it's caused by drowning.
yes. can i go test that theory now?
that's completely arbitrary.
no rbc damage.
we stick another needle in him he'll haemorrhage.
like he predicted.
whatever's in there could be killing him.
could be pneumococcus. that'd cause chest pain and the stiff neck.
let me check your lymph nodes. [house slaps his hand away.]
you told us to give you the blood so that you wouldn't...
could be a symptom of any number of...
[quickly] endocarditis.
ah i already said that.
what points?
where's foreman?
by who? is it about our ?
if a clot reaches his lungs or his heart it'll kill him.
[protesting] it's true.
and what you're doing?
so you paged taub.
he hasn't left the country in years.
a pharmaceutical rep left that here on tuesday.
the rep was a thirty-something babe.
it's not malaria. bloodwork's negative.
blood exposure during sex?
if you're looking to get information out of the guy he's not exactly the bare-your-soul type.
house!
respiratory failure.
thirteen thought it was bacterial meningitis.
chronic pulmonary embolism would explain the uh breathing problem and the blood coming from his lungs.
i'll run an ultrasou
that doesn't always rule out
[denying] no.
it's pretty fuzzy.
can you do this echo again?
i was asking if you could do it again after giving him a sedative to keep him still.
lungs are stiff could be ards.
[stands] what if the lymph nodes are caused by chronic stimulation of his immune system? impurities in his drugs could have caused
uh still can't find the drug source but i don't think that's the problem. the dimercaprol isn't working. [adding] and quidd volunteers at a home for abandoned kids.
because his bass player told me.
i dunno.
[pettily] is it medically relevant?
autoimmune.
we're gonna use flashing lights. noxious stimulation it'll irritate your brain. if there's damage to your neurons it'll trigger a seizure that we can
[just as calm] seizing.
sounds more folky.
[licking a candy cane] you think it's over?
i meant the game. you think he's gonna keep all four of us?
he lies.
[frowning] wasn't me.
[frustratedly] am i fired if i put up <U+0097>
[perks up] good. then can we do a secret santa? [foreman looks at him likes he's an idiot]
okay we can rule out breast cancer.
[incredulous] she called her mom a slut?
we'll follow up with any recent partners.
how are you feeling?
it will take a few more hours to cycle all your blood through the machine.
[turns and looks around] nothing. what's wrong?
[shines a flashlight over her eyes no response] most of the drugs should be out of your system by now and our drugs <U+0097>
you're actually going to let us do secret santa?
no the dialysate composition was within range. [looks at the name on his slip of paper giving a nod and smiling to himself] sweet.
i was pleased. i thought it'd be fun to buy for <U+0097>
i'm thinking of spending a few extra bucks on my secret santa.
yes i do. just another five bucks.
the key is proof i didn't do exactly what house told me to do. and what do you care if it's another fifteen?
[scoffs and presses the elevator button as they arrive] not you. you really think you're going to prove people are capable of honesty using a mother and daughter you've known for one day?
so you really have huntington's?
but house said that <U+0097>
except she can't see or move her hands.
cool. i'll set up a psych consult and start her on anti-depressants. [starts to leave]
she's sleeping. why don't we just double the amount we can spend?
can't afford another twenty-five?
ah so you can't afford another thirty-five.
[at foreman and thirteen] how do you know no?
well we still have to buy him something.
we weren't supposed to discuss this. we're not supposed to know.
[smiling lightly] i'm still buying him a present.
[glares at her] fine.
who's that from?
gyms aren't exactly pristine could be a fungal infection. seriously who's it from? [nodding to the present again]
it's not christmas yet.
gift could be from a patient.
why do you have a problem with him speculating?
maggie i'm gonna remove the scope. i need you to cough for me okay?
a little harder.
great.
but she's bleeding into her eyes now.
plummeted. new labs show they're under 40. she'll bleed out of every orifice if we don't find the cause.
[continues to contribute] hemolytic uremic syndrome sepsis lupus <U+0097>
i'm your secret santa.
but you got a present already. which means you have more than one secret santa.
[looks unconvinced and a little hurt but reaches into his pocket and hands house a present with a smile] merry christmas.
we ran a full body bone scan to find the cause of hardening in the hip. no hotspots anywhere.
so i screwed up the test?
it circulated the camera picked up <U+0097>
i did not screw up! the density's consistent.
well it's gotta be from a carbonic anhydrase type 2 deficiency.
i meant if it's not caii well none of the other causes of osteopetrosis are treatable.
whatever she has is fatal. makes no difference if it's disease number 58 or 907.
you guys mad at me?
of course i had a choice. you had no choice once i made my choice.
why?
or a kidney stone.
could be a struvite kidney stone.
cause he said kidney stones were boring.
what else do they have down there?
i don't mean medical stuff other stuff. some geological equipment breaks ice and rock the same way we break kidney stones. [everyone stares at him.] discovery channel. i like watching them blow stuff up.
if sound waves from the flaw detector break the egg it should safely dissolve your kidney stone.
there's no reason it shouldn't. sound waves are sound waves. stones are stones.
we're almost ready to start the test.
we don't want to do it.
house will get what he wants. [cameron laughs and walks away.]
[reading the flier.] free rottweiler puppies. please call after 11:00 pm and before 5:00 am. [looks up at house] is this cameron's home number?
we're still fired?
i love you.
no!
why are we out here?
what if the clots aren't clots? atherosclerosis. fatty plaque builds up on the arterial walls pieces break off block blood flow. explains everything.
no.
maybe.
could be a different kind of fat fat emboli.
i knew.
i asked her out. said she just started seeing someone.
she does. but she also has legs that go all the way up to canada.
[amused] she grew on me. if there's a toxin in her could be carbolic acid. [clarifying] i'm talking about the patient now.
how do you go all the way from...?
and you just completely left the music business?
[almost feeling sorry for her because...] so you can never watch star wars again.
treatment had no effect. rules out endometriosis. and her hair sample was negative for residue drugs.
she admitted drug use. doubt she's holding out on her days as an asbestos miner.
she didn't develop uncontrollable anger crying anxiety. she just decided to go to temple.
she didn't like her old life so she changed it.
[pointing at taub] taub gave up a six figure plastic surgery career for this job. that mean he has porphyria?
no no if she walked away from everything to go base jumping or live with apes we wouldn't be having this discussion.
porphyria is a rare genetic disorder that causes an overproduction of a certain protein. draining the blood relieves...
not-not exactly. we're testing her now to confirm.
blood test results take twenty-four hours.
uhh dr. house has a theory.
[vo] we kept her on oxygen overnight.
her respiratory rate stabilized and her o-sat's back up to 95. saw amber drop off wilson this morning.
i missed it. the lab tech with the tongue stud also pulled up.
it's planet of the apes. apes are the humans humans are the apes. it's wacky wednesday opposite day.
when you stand up your bp and heart rate are supposed to go up not...
if the toaster's not working wiring could be bad.
electrical problem in the heart. arrhythmia messes with the blood flow when she stands causes low bp and heart rate. could also impact mental status. everybody's happy.
you can become a dar master. does that require further explanation?
in college i was really into science fiction. not like the guys with the six-hundred-dollar prosthetic ears who could swear in romulan. that was embarrassing to the rest of us who just thought it was good smart literature. went to one convention. by senior year i was dar master in the klingon empire.
you can't have your eyes opened to something and not act on it.
then they have something to offer.
[to taub] i think she's telling you to stop deflecting.
's okay. thanks to the sedative you won't remember it.
if the toaster doesn't work and the wiring in the house is fine problem's gotta be in the city's power grid.
[to roz] congratulations on your wedding. [whispering] you have a rare and incurable degenerative disease.
[suddenly interested] what?
hear who? [to taub] i heard the word sex.
what was interesting?
we're doctors. we never know what's gonna matter. she said sex.
[smiling] yeah these people aren't gonna change you at all.
[vo] return to the planet of the apes.
could be an infection.
when she was admitted. she coulda picked something up here.
something missing from the body. could be an enzyme or a hormone.
taub just met her and he's already so in love he's ready to let her die and take her back to the home planet for a burial in the lava sea of tormiac.
i read that a hydatid cyst could...
how long till we get to cut her open?
[shot in the dark] polycythemia vera.
[vo] thrombocytopenia. if it's autoimmune...
parkinson's would explain the hypothermia.
[laughs.] niceness is a defect?
he's saying that statistics are true too. that the world is a bell curve most of us fall within the standard deviation but there are outliers. and if we believe in the existence of extreme jerkiness which i suspect that we do... [pauses and looks at house who glares back.] then we also have to accept the existence of the opposite extreme.
and coaches handicapped kids. you think we should do a workup on the other coaches?
i'm not saying he's perfect i'm saying he's trying to be. that's what people do. [foreman stares at him.] what?
people usually suck but they want to be good want to be nice.
[shrugs.] exception that proves the rule.
a bad one.
but not the niceness.
[comes barging in.] house i got the...
calcium's normal.
everything's normal.
he's a carpet cleaner he's got a home full of hydrofluoric acid.
yeah actually it kinda does hf causes lower levels of...
lower than normal.
he actually has hypercalcemia which is being lowered to normal by the hf.
i take it you know?
perfect pitch?
patient tested negative for william's which means the stroke and everything else wasn't caused by...
[looks up from the review he has just been given.] i'll go run the tests. [taub kutner and thirteen all leave.]
you don't know.
you can know who you had sex with. you can't know who she...
not for sure.
ten years ago. you haven't been with your wife every minute of every day.
i think you're... yeah.
she's not perfect.
there was enough blood left over from his admission work up to run the vdrl.
no what i thought didn't matter. house said he wouldn't let us go on until we ruled out neurosyphilis.
it's neurosyphilis. the tests were positive.
i ran it twice.
did you have an affair?
then why aren't you angry with him?
no.
if syphilis caused lesions in his brain and the lesions caused personality changes you may notice a change in him as his condition improves.
you should get yourself tested. [leaves.]
so much for the bell curve. how can house be an ass without it being an illness but niceness is a biological crime?
uh yeah. [hands him five bucks.]
it's true.
not him what'd he say?
if there's something wrong with this guy it means there's something wrong with house. [leaves.]
the bleeding's probably from liver damage probably caused by ethanol in the cleansers or the penicillin.
it's positive.
it's positive for syphilis.
not the patient. house. he has syphilis.
you might want to turn off the tv.
one of us found a vial of your blood in the lab...
you okay? [house doesn't say anything just kind of nods they all leave.]
maybe he'll be less of a jerk.
you got to be a jerk to be a good doctor?
she saved his life.
[starts writing on the board.] we uh loaded him full of prednisone to try to fix the liver.
prednisone could cause roid rage which could cause hypertension which results...
we gave van gogh chelation therapy. turned him into a house painter.
okay got a good view of the heart.
quite the line to walk if we're wrong he dies of neurosyphilis.
other people who aren't our boss.
this sucks the guy had a gift. i'd kill... [amber walks in.] hi what...
we're not idiots positive blood test means positive blood test.
he doesn't have syphilis. [continues leaving.]
patient tested positive for syphilis right?
but why did he test positive for syphilis?
either one he has syphilis...
or two the test was wrong twice or three he gave us someone else's blood. [house stops.]
[smiling.] amber.
or four he has something that tests positive for syphilis.
he worked in costa rica before he was married.
i've heard of remote tribes that actually practice acts of kindness or the chagas caused encephalitis.
until we started him on steroids compromised the immune system and let the infection flare up. i did another one. [shows house.] it's not much.
you have chagas disease. it's a parasite it's been asymptomatic for ten years.
[smiles.] neither am i.
so house was wrong about the first symptom but the guy just happened to develop a second unrelated symptom a few hours later?
is it okay if i use that time to do the test?
usually is.
he's wrong a lot too. that's why we do these tests. i bet it's cool you know being the star of a hit tv show.
come on. you're on tv every day. and who cares what the critics think. women love soaps.
you're entertaining people.
then you've made a strange career choice.
so quit. find something inspiring and do it.
why not?
[approaches] emg was negative for nerve entrapment. means the foot's a real symptom. could be vitamin deficiency.
or atherosclerosis.
one bad night and a couple of sunflower seeds and he's got autonomic disregulation.
the impotence could be psychological. he's depressed. hates his job.
all set. heart monitor blood pressure monitor and the one on his junk.
i don't get this guy. he has the coolest gig ever but he's miserable about it.
our circumstances affect whether or not <U+0096>
sure.
i once sold men's fragrances in a department store.
the pay was awful.
so what about you? are you happy?
got some activity on the tumescence monitor as well.
sometimes uh when you haven't you know for a while
he's headed for cardiac arrest.
we shocked his heart back into sinus rhythm. he's stable at least for now.
he used to smoke. could be paraneoplastic syndrome caused by small cell lung cancer.
if house finds out
i already asked him that.
he feels unfulfilled.
his thyroid looks normal.
everything look too bright to you?
it's not the monitor. it's the iodine. it's everywhere. his body's not filtering it.
we've got him on broad-spectrum antibiotics but he's slipped from delirium into a coma.
what about pneumococcus? causes heart problems and sepsis.
he would have been sore all over.
where are you going?
[pulls out a pen and opens a file.] where's your cane and motorcycle? and where'd you go last night?
you left here at 5:23 p.m. your motorcycle never made it home.
we did pull up a list of all of the injuries. twenty-two victims were brought here injuries ranging from a broken pelvis to a severed right foot.
[turns back.] the shortest distance between here and your memory is straight through your prefrontal cortex. all we have to do is access it.
medical hypnosis can bring the brain to a class ii theta state increasing focus and memory retrieval.
someone on the surgical department must be trained.
ct ruled out subdural hematoma stroke or subarachnoid hemorrhage.
elevated white count means transverse myelitis is...
are you sure you're feeling okay?
house's skull fracture extends all the way down to his ear canal.
you should really be resting.
[answers it.] yeah?
the patient has laboured breathing because he's been on a treadmill for the last thirty minutes.
the test worked. he collapsed.
yeah.
then what is it?
it must be a pulmonary embolism. [cuddy walks in with house.]
you let him back in?
[feels house's neck as house is still trying to catch his breath.] strong pulse.
[vo] medical hypnosis can...
[vo] ... bring the brain to a class two theta state.
we can narrow it down by looking for arterial blockages.
there is another way to narrow it down. if you really did see a symptom in amber before the crash physostigmine helped your memory last time.
you comin'?
correspondence letters to patients she could have caught something from one of them.
travel. do you know if she's been out of the country recently?
it's just video clips. maybe she narrates where they are.
looks like she didn't travel very far.
hey.
as long as we don't know what's wrong we don't know what's relevant.
are you okay?
i'm gonna search her bathroom.
[hands the bottle to house] we found these in her apartment. [to wilson] sorry. prescription diet pills. ssris amphetamines.
her liver's not working.
there's a sharrie's bar on third right off the bus route.
where are you going?
what did house have to say?
ooh. not that one. the slurry tube.
[sighs] i know this is different. but it's not. everyone dies.
you're reacting this way because she might be... soon.
i'm an indian guy named kutner. ever wonder what happened to my parents?
i was six years old. i used to like helping out in my parents' store after school. guy walks in to rob the place. ends up shooting them both. wasn't fair. took years but i had to accept that's just the way it was. [beat] so you gonna help me fill her lungs up or not?
dermatomyositis.
[sadly] what about a new heart? transplant?
we liked her.
we don't need to say anything.
