[shouting through the door] help! [he bangs on the door a few times.] help me!
dry heaves are gone so am i.
no no no no. i'm here voluntarily. just got to check with me.
[from the doorway] wow. [they both look up.] and he's black. i thought you'd be a little more sensitive on the slavery issue.
can't keep me.
i am a lot better. no painkillers. no hallucinations. leg hurts but it's manageable. great job. gonna miss you. want to start missing you as soon as possible.
i'll take it under advisement.
i was deluded into thinking i might be crazy.
well that's not gonna cheer me up is it?
yeah i get it. uh just one thing i'm getting hung up on. i can leave whenever i want. how bout i start with that? [he heads for the door.]
[turning slowly] i don't want to practice medicine. i've decided i want to be an astronaut.
is that a popular new treatment <U+0096> blackmail?
so brass tacks what do i have to do and how long do i have to be here?
i set a goal.
my goal is to get your boss to write the letter that i want him to write. now let's talk process. i can smile through gritted teeth and play nice but there are serious risks of violence involved in that choice so i'm going with turning this ward upside down making you and your boss' job and life so unmanageable that he'll write whatever he has to write to get rid of me.
[who has continued unpacking silently] really?
oh you're actually waiting for an answer this time. you can call me house.
[to annie who is standing and staring into the office area] is this the line?
no you can't.
[rapping with his cane on the glass window of the office] i need to request a new room. [he starts walking down the perimeter of the office looking for someone. alvie follows.]
i'm not on any meds.
excuse me. i know you're busy ignoring me but my minibar is empty.
go be that man.
yeah yeah yeah. i got it. [he goes to the piano.]
don't worry about the name. i'm just passing through. don't want to break any hearts.
so he's claustrophobic right? [to jay] you're claustrophobic? [to beasley] can i get a pen to write this stuff down?
[pointing at richter] paranoid. check.
a crayon? anybody?
cut your wrists huh?
[feigning shock] oh i'm sorry. is suicide taboo? gosh if i've broken a rule on my first day i will kill myself.
that flew by.
really? is there a club?
i'm that good.
would you believe me if i said yes?
then yes.
[nods] i also know you're trying to be sweet caring and effective. you're just not.
[nods slightly] okay.
shut up. nobody likes you.
am i crowding you?
can't see the sun?
oh no! everything is closing in.
[to beasley] he's the claustrophobic one right? cause i'm doing this from memory. [he starts walking toward the basket.]
why? the cia satellites aren't watching me. they're watching you cause you're wearing green. [as richter tears off his sweater and throws it on the ground house turns to beasley] that one was just too easy. [turning to hal] seriously anorexia? what are you supposed to be a girl? and in answer to your implicit question yes those pants do make you look fat. [hal backs away quickly. house looks around and sees susan standing under the basket.] how upset were you when you woke up in the er and you were still alive and a failure? [she turns and walks away. house looks at beasley bounces the ball a couple of times and makes an easy lay-up.]
you're right. it is rewarding when you reach out.
put it on my tab.
i think you'll find music therapy's more effective if the patients are inside to hear it. [she smiles and continues playing.] where'd you get the key?
[pointing to annie] so if she ever talks are we gonna get a german accent?
so let him come play the piano.
nice. you're a little heavy on the right foot though. [he sits next to annie.]
you're not talking. [she stops playing and looks at him.] her head is bobbing to her pulse.
technically yes.
can i lead this time?
[to lydia over his shoulder as they lead him off] leave the lid unlocked when you're done.
can you close the door? you're letting all the cool air out.
i've had some time to think about the approach i've been taking. [he looks back at beasley.] i'm new unhappy here and i've been taking it out on you guys unfairly. it was misdirected anger. [he bounces the ping pong ball on the table once.] cause when you think about it the real jerks here are the doctors.
see how they give you a ping pong table but no paddles. no net. it's like they're mocking you.
the game is called table tennis not table volleyball.
who ever saw a tennis court without a net?
no one's gonna try to hang themselves with a ping pong net.
no little kids are allowed to play ping pong and they can play the piano.
seriously? is that your strategy? give everybody what they want except me?
shut up.
no
yep.
i don't know yet.
you know it's easier to come up with a new plan in silence.
god if only you'd said that two minutes ago before i came up with my new scheme. now i'm committed. [he takes a step past her then leans back with a huge smile on his face.] ha! get it!
[approaches] do you have third floor privileges?
is that true?
i need you to break into nolan's office.
i want you to focus.
go into nolan's office. look at his calendar. i need the name of the woman he met with at 11 today.
yes get me chips and dip. what else?
you get the name?
well then we can assume the girl he's with is called nooner.
he's gonna fork her.
that's okay. i got her license plate. i call my friend. he gets the name. i get the letter that gets me out of here.
i'm on level minus four. i'm still writing with a crayon. you?
hal's at level five?
will he sell you some minutes?
[thinks] can you cheek a pill?
that's too bad for you.
you sure you're good with this?
so how do we start?
think hal will mind if they're wet?
no. it's your other friend at the asylum.
hallucinations are gone so is the vicodin.
they got me on some non-narcotic. i'm dealing. i need you to run a license plate.
track down the owner of this car and i'll be able to visit you in your office tomorrow. my doctor is too smart too old and too well-dressed to only be running one ward. he screwed up something in his life and i think he's doing it again. i need her name so i can blackmail the blackmailer.
what did he want to know?
well now i'm calling you to tell you that if he calls you <U+0096>
you can.
it turns out you're my only friend.
and i hate you. i'm gonna cooperate.
no i'm pretty sure their plan is for me to actually swallow the pills to actually cooperate.
one two three. [they all put a card on their foreheads facing out. house has the 8 of diamonds jay-bird the 10 of clubs.] okay stomp. start the bidding. highest card wins. [stomp who has the king of hearts gets up and leaves.] that's probably a fold. richter.
he's not confident alvie. crush him in the form of a rhyme if you want.
oh. that's a lot of nerve for someone with a two on their head.
[reaching for her] come here.
i want to see if you've got what it takes. give me your best poker face. [she leans down and stares at him. he stares back. he sees his card reflected in her glasses.] too rich for my blood. [to diane] you can take my seat.
better than yesterday not as good as tomorrow. [he takes the pills and water. as he passes alvie he sticks out his tongue. there are two pills on it. alvie smiles and touches his nose.]
i've been humming to her. she sways. it might be significant. [lydia continues playing.] are you ignoring me or are you just letting my charm wash over you.
you're right. your playing does get worse when you talk. [she gives him a very funny look.] i assume she loved music.
well if she responded to the piano she might respond even better to the cello.
different desk. different doctor.
nope. can i go now? there's a manic out there with a fresh carton of cigarettes and he's a terrible bluffer.
he hit me. i hit him back. repeat until pulpy.
well that tends to be the way fights work <U+0096> different interpretations of the same circumstances.
there's that tone again.
how come every time you compliment me it sounds like an accusation?
it's not that unusual.
why don't you stop pretending that you haven't reached a conclusion? you don't trust me. actually it's more fundamental than that. you don't like me.
you think i'm not taking my meds.
yes. so what do you want me to do? want me to take a urine test? will that earn your trust?
a little dignity please.
yeah but you don't have to have courtside seats. can i at least use a stall?
for he himself has said it and it's greatly to his credit that he is an englishman. he i-i-i-i-is an englishman.
get it while it's hot.
why are you doing that?
[putting down his cards and turning] i'm just curious. as a doctor what are you doing?
[taking his cane and standing] so legit medical reasons. you're not just trying to break the guy because he's a little different.
i'm not doing anything.
i'm thinking of hitting you again.
what's the difference between pretending to cooperate and cooperating?
i sat and watched while he did something stupid and pointless. i cooperated.
where's freedom master?
get out there. they said everybody has to get out there. talk! say something!
did you drug him?
he has a flat affect. he's practically catatonic.
don't tell me that he's fine! you did this. he was functioning. he was happy.
yeah. he's way better off now.
i'm not allowed to get angry? they screwed him up. and for the record i am two privilege levels above susan. and i got the same depression-scale score.
happiness is happiness. the test is the test. coping is coping.
absolutely! i need to address some deeper issues which i can do on an outpatient basis. three hours a week? and that's just my opening offer. if you want to counter i'll likely fold.
no is not an argument. are you trying to frustrate me?
no again? i can cope! i'm coping. in fact [he reaches into his pants pocket.] i'm coping better than you think. i've not been taking my meds. [he holds out a handful of pills.] not one. and yet i still scored a high functioning on your depression test.
manipulated. my proof is that i can fool the test i can fool you which means i am high functioning. i am sane rational capable. i should not be here.
i'm not gonna take it. i'll just cheek it again.
you want me to lick your hand?
it's sugar.
there is no new plan. i'm out of plans.
we stop talking. [he lifts his leg and lies down facing he wall.]
i see you've got some cello in your trunk. [she turns to face him.] and no that's not a euphemism. [he stands.]
i'm living in a psychiatric hospital. staring out of the window is what we do. i assume you'll need help carrying it up. i still got grounds privileges.
yes cast aside the useless cripple. how very german of you.
or we could ask clark kent to pitch in.
eh the dolly already feels good about itself. he was a happy-go-lucky superhero until they told him he has no powers. we let him help out he feels good about himself. might be less depressed.
so why do you put your life on hold to visit your sister-in-law five times a week?
no. you're not even a bad person for lying about why you're doing it. [loudly to freedom master] oh that is impressive. that is a superhuman feat. [freedom master grunts as he puts the cello down next to the car.] why don't you take a rest before you fly that thing up to the ward? [he leans against the car breathing hard.] he's still depressed. give me your car keys. [he holds out his hand.]
i'm gonna make him feel like he's flying. i'll just drive him around the grounds top down wind in his hair. [she laughs.] seriously you're gonna say no to that? [pointing at freedom master]
why are you so nice to me?
would you still be nice to me if i told you that i lied? i'm not just driving around the grounds in your convertible. i'm kidnapping him and stealing your car.
you sure? [she nods and opens the car door.] i was just starting to feel a little heat between us. thought we had kind of a bonnie and clyde thing going there.
hmm. see you.
you can do this. [cut to house wearing an orange and yellow jump suit with an xfly logo and goggles. there's a ferris wheel in the background.] if you hold my hand i can do it too.
don't let go!
keep it down freedom master.
you're scaring the good citizens.
it was fun. [freedom master runs in a circle house.] you can repay me by telling nolan he's an idiot.
we do enjoy it. [freedom master wooshes off.] careful of the traffic. [he puts the giraffe in the car. don't go damaging any fenders. [he looks up.] hey! [freedom master is climbing on the wall at the side of the garage.] hey! come on get down. there's no cry for help. there's no cat in a tree.
[yells] no! [as freedom master flies off the side of the garage.]
[has been staring at him looking terrified about what he did] don't. [nolan stops and looks back.] i need help.
so how's this supposed to work?
about what?
you want me to whine about my mother?
i can tell you about the time i was five and my goldfish died.
i've had a billion things happen to me in my life. how am i supposed to know which ones are relevant?
well we better get moving cause this session could take 50 years.
i want to get better whatever the hell that means. i'm sick of being miserable.
again with the reflecting <U+0096> yes i'd like to be happy.
well bully for me.
ssris? that's your genius technique?
for my leg. for pain.
i don't want to change who i am.
if van gogh was your patient he'd be satisfied painting houses instead of the starry night.
you don't know that.
hmmm delicious.
i'm waiting for my communion wafer. [he takes the pills and the water handing the empties back to safer. alvie follows him as he walks away from the office.]
nope.
[pushing alvie's hands away] i swallowed it. [he starts to walk away. alvie follows.]
you don't take meds alvie. i decided to get sane.
i'm not scamming alvie.
[turning to look at him] they didn't break me. i am broken. now stop worshipping me and go worry about your own loser life.
prom?
[taking off his glasses] role-playing? i'm not sure how pretending to be a businessman with a foot fetish is gonna help but i'm game.
diane is convinced that silent girl hates her. richter's not as paranoid as you think. he just likes that you think that. and my roommate hates me.
i'm sure that they've done some form of rudimentary analysis on me concluded that i'm a jerk.
i have had relationships.
just open up?
strangers?
hi.
it's like hello only shorter.
judging by the fancy suit i'd say you were a donor. the nervous demeanor says maybe you've had issues probably why this place has personal meaning. [he puts a fistful of nuts in his mouth and starts talking again before he swallows them.] but this is supposed to be about me. [he swallows.] i take advantage of my friends. friend really i've only got one.
i'm not gay.
actually i am. see that guy over there? [he indicates nolan who has his head tilted back eating the maraschino cherry from his drink.] he's my lover. he's also my psychiatrist which some would argue is a little inappropriate but they just don't know what love is. am i right?
no but i have to tell intimate secrets to people.
hadn't thought of that. to be on the safe side i should probably do both starting with the fun ones. come on let's get me better.
hi.
[geekily plays with a straw] i'm a philanderer.
philanderer doesn't mean that i give a lot to charity. it means <U+0096>
uh you were asking me if there were any nuts in the hors d'oeuvres.
[looking up] honey! [he stands.]
i did connect with one guy. but my propensity for screwing things up overtook me. then my desire to have fun overcame my propensity.
[thinks about that] apparently not.
why don't we just talk?
how come you weren't pissed at me for stealing your car?
hmmm. i'm not sure about the german-english translation of nice. stealing was nice or ruining freedom master's life?
good night.
you're talking to me now.
[sounding a little surprised] yeah.
she kissed me. don't read into the phrasing. we kissed each other.
how do i feel about that? it was a kiss. kisses are good things.
that was a loaded okay.
cause you're being judgmental. if i'd said that i'd had some delicious chilean sea bass for dinner last night would you say and how do you feel about that?
[laughing slightly] see you're being judgmental. isn't that against your code or something?
[sitting up then slouching back in the chair] who's that woman you were with in the parking lot?
obviously you have no problem with the infidelity.
then who is she?
i might not have to work so hard if there were some personal items in here. you got one number on speed dial. it says dad. come on how old are you?
i want to talk about you. i want to know who i'm taking advice from.
i think there are no personal items in here because you have no personal life.
you are a lonely man. you've screwed up every opportunity you've had in life.
[sighs] i don't know.
why did you kiss me?
i found out you can only be happy so long before the catatonic guy with two broken limbs rolls off the elevator. philosophically speaking.
my mother caught me masturbating to pictures of her mother.
successes only last until someone screws them up. failures are forever.
okay i accept the fact that there's nothing i can do. now what can i do?
wow. powerful things these apologies. get someone to jump off a building and you say two words and you move on with your life. hardly seems fair.
hey.
yeah.
you really think he's gonna answer?
why?
things change. it doesn't mean they get better. you gotta make things better you can't just keep talking and hope for the best. [house starts looking in the distance puzzled.]
[getting up] i can save him. they stole her voice box. that's what he said. that's what she was staring at. that's why she's staring. [he goes to the window of the office.]
[pointing rattling the glass] cause there's a music box in there.
[rattling the doorknob] come on just give it to me. i can <U+0096> [the orderly tries to grab his arm.] i am not having a psychotic break. [to beasley] i promise you this will work.
it's the blue box there on the top shelf. [he puts his cane on a ledge and takes the box from the orderly. he heads for freedom master.] this is what you wanted. this is what you needed <U+0096> a voice. [he kneels next to freedom master and tries to hand him the music box.] you thought you could cure silent girl with this so by your own rationale it should cure you. [freedom master doesn't move.] there's nothing wrong with you. you're healing. all the parts work. speak! [nothing. house grabs his face and shakes it slightly.] come on speak! say something!
i need to know what this is.
there's two possible outcomes. it ends someone gets hurt. or it doesn't end someone gets hurt.
i can't <U+0096> i can't do this. [he hands her back the sheet music.]
[sighs] good-bye lydia. [he gets up and leaves.]
[slouched and glowering in his chair] oh just do the treatment or shut up.
yes a process. wouldn't want to disrupt the process with results.
yeah. you're a genius. rhymes with penius.
[opening the paper] is this a day pass?
a consult? what happened <U+0096> you went through every sane doctor in town?
[looking at an x-ray] lacunar infarct. converted to hemorrhagic stroke. it squashed his brain. they didn't miss anything.
that's what you knew. his brain has been replaced by blood. it's over. [nolan kisses his father's hand.] and that's obvious to any doctor who looked at that scan even a shrink. you want someone to tell you that what you need to do is okay to give you permission absolution.
you have no friends no family. at some point you made a mistake. you lost everything. and now i'm the closest thing you got to a friend.
i'm sorry i pushed you away. it's what i do when i'm afraid. [she makes a scoffing sound.] again german-english translation may be a little off.
oh well then i take the apology back. [she laughs.] we're all pathetic. it's what makes everything interesting.
[still leaning against the wall by the door bails him out] then we wouldn't have no regrets.
and my roommate is a jerk.
if i can't get no sleep?
[getting into the rhythm] if you don't make connections
[shrugs] just do a talent show. [everyone including lydia laughs.]
[enjoying himself] but at least we have each other
how are you doing? you hanging in there?
things are actually actually good. [he sounds a little surprised.]
i'm not that cured. no i still got stuff to do but i'm good.
i'm sorry. [he looks around and pulls up a chair.] i was trying to prove a point. i was trying to be right. i ended up putting you in a dangerous situation and i was not equipped to handle it. you got hurt and it's my fault. and i'm sorry.
[standing and steering freedom master's chair] i'm gonna try those pink ones today. you?
got a surprise.
if you go silent for over a decade you don't just get to slide right back into society.
i want an overnight pass.
i've earned it.
isn't extending trust part of the whole getting me better thing?
please give me the pass.
hi.
i'm <U+0096>
you didn't say anything. and now annie's leaving and i hear you're going to arizona.
i don't want you to go.
i just don't want it to change.
she left.
i'm lost.
you can't just console me by giving me a lollipop when i skin my knee.
back off. people already think we're gay.
i quit.
i think you're confusing me with jake gyllenhaal.
yeah and i want to stay that way. talked it over with my therapist. i need to change my environment my habits.
which will help immensely with my new job in research. i've sent out some resumes. research means no patients less pressure.
i'm sorry. i know this will affect both of you... and thirteen... and the one with the nose. i just can't risk coming back here.
i know it's the right call. just don't know what to do with my time. and my leg <U+0096> (rubbing his thigh) pain's flared up since i left mayfield. ibuprofen's barely putting a dent in it.
right. doctors the world over treat chronic pain with collections of hummel figurines.
you already made me get a roommate. wilson's got one bedroom. i don't think we can get any more connected without unzipping.
difference is that beethoven's 5th isn't gonna be poop tomorrow.
try not to be a jerk. i'm trying. i'm just failing.
(looking past wilson) they're smoking. (wilson looks at him questioningly) your balls.
blue is the color you got to watch out for.
i think there's a medicated powder for that. although vinegar could work. (looking for vinegar among a collection of bottles on the shelf) my o-chem prof talked about how theoretically you shouldn't trust the results of a hemoglobin a1c test on a chronically acidotic patient. the acid in the blood slows the reaction between the hemoglobin protein and blood sugar. browning meat is the same chemical process which means it should also be slowed by acid. (house has poured some vinegar into a cup and is brushing it onto the meatballs in the frying pan)
(smiling) that's the spirit.
(gesturing for cuddy to follow and heading toward the kitchen) i'm making gnocchi.
cecile's in my cooking class. she doesn't speak english.
(in chinese) missionary
(rolling some pastry on a board) you bake the potatoes instead of boiling them it's less moisture fewer gluten bonds lighter gnocchi.
feeling better.
(in chinese) i meant the position.
i do love a good groveling but my decision is final.
yeah. but it's not. we flirted. we kissed. i fondled. i hallucinated a night with you and yelled it from a hospital balcony. you're not a narcissist.
not the reason i'm leaving.
(to cecile) you just couldn't keep your trap shut.
great. you're up. i need a taster. ragout with pork sausage beef thigh no cream. (he holds a wooden spoonful of ragout in front of wilson)
bed is for sissies unless you're having sex in which case... no bed is still for sissies.
(stirring again) should've been here when i was butchering the ox. what do you expect? i'm an addict. i turn everything up to eleven.
no. i was trying to find something i could set at eleven without blowing out my eardrums. (pulling a wooden spoon out of another pot) star anise with caramelized onions. the sulfur compounds bring out the meat flavor. (he gives the spoon to wilson) i couldn't sleep because of my leg. it was either make ragout or go out on the street looking to score.
you're early. (he turns and heads for the kitchen. he is wearing a bib apron)
i knew you'd show up here complaining about foreman. thought you'd hold out for another week at least.
i went crazy not stupid. i leave foreman embraces his inner mugabe.
embryonali <U+0096> unhatched chicken egg. (he drops the egg into his hand and passes it from one hand to the other until it is cool enough to hold) i'm gonna suck out some of the yolk and replace it with ragout. by the way you can tell the other lepers that their absence has been noted.
daddy's little co-dependent is all grown up. making room for daddy's hot bisexual with boyfriend problems.
stop being a coward for one thing.
at a job that no one before me has ever done. his fears are justified. you're just afraid of giving him control over you which might work at home. it makes it almost impossible for him to do his job. pass me those crackers.
i'm saying... that you would be happier if you learned when it's okay to give in. (he looks up to find thirteen staring at him in wonderment) what?
taste this.
i know. and yet my leg hurts. (he rubs his thigh and leans against the kitchen island)
coffee ice cream.
started thinking about what you said about me obsessing. started obsessing about obsessing. decided to take a day off.
how like a man to think that i enjoy slaving over a hot stove all day while you're off banging secretaries.
that was before i discovered the biggest loser marathon on cable. i like to pretend they can see me eating.
it's fine.
my leg's killing me. cooking helped for a while. i guess i got bored. my leg started hurting again then i got worried and that made the pain worse.
that nothing's gonna help. that i end up in the very dark place. i'm fine... just not happy.
what if nothing works? what if nothing gives me more than a few days before my brain starts looking for the next fix before my leg feels like someone's shoving nails into it? what do i do then?
if you wanted a quickie you should've called ahead. i'm a mess.
you have lunch with cuddy on tuesdays.
and you are checking up on me.
you were running out of socks for me to borrow. we got plenty of underwear though. i'm fine.
and consistency proves what? really. i'm good. i'll put these in your room.
dyou always hurtd d the one you loved
no. the only thing you know is that i'm a genius who got a dog to pee in your toilet. you don't know how i did it or more interestingly where i peed.
et tu butte? you got no reason to be here. he's the one i was jerking around.
ow. it hurts. please go away now. if you really think i'm using how about asking me before taking a wrench to your plumbing?
fine. let's get you some proof. hide your eyes ladies.
(looking at cuddy) you too.
if the lab says that this is retriever too please let me know right away. it'd explain my overwhelming desire to wipe my butt on your carpet.
i slipped.
i solved my old team's case. i was about to take the pills. i went online. i found people posting medical problems and... my leg stopped hurting.
oh? i'm supposed to be changing my life. this is not a change.
says the guy making sand castles in my brain.
so you're okay with me going online solving cases?
the hospital is part of my old life. if i go back i might become... who i was before pills and all.
guess we're gonna find out.
oh my god it's three years ago. does that mean i'm still crazy?
i know. i just ran into thirteen while she was clearing out her locker. my condolences. although it's not like she's the hottest woman in the world.
sort of.
not for a month or so. so you'll be in charge. i'm just gonna pitch in a little.
i don't want to step on any toes but i guess i do have a higher duty to the patient.
you're rushing to a diagnosis because you're rushing out of this room because you're rightly upset with me. although i wasn't the one who made that asinine decision to <U+0096>
poison fits better because of the vomiting. bug bite might not be a bite. it might be the start of chloracne.
i was hoping you'd get there on your own. [foreman glares at him.] so i guess we should talk to cuddy.
i need this in my life.
yeah that's why i did it. [he looks at foreman.] sorry. if you want i'll explain it to thirteen.
think i can probably deal with that last one.
didn't pee once in the sandbox.
what did you think i was talking about? hmmm. you didn't use garlic. you didn't use it last night either. we always use garlic on chicken florentine.
you seem to be losing your sense of smell.
i can check right now if you pull my finger. [he picks up the tv remote.]
you weren't wearing shoes last night either.
i told you to get that echo fixed.
what's his name?
the white coats taught me a whole bunch of fun coping and relating skills.
coping skill number one complete avoidance. [his cell phone rings.] you happy? [answering phone] booty call? give me 20 minutes to not shower.
lassa fever. you were mad that i withheld it last time so i'm saying it right up front. he's already stabilized so 40 ccs of ribavirin and we're home in time for ellen.
oh.
don't people sometimes travel? to places that have you know a fever that originated in the nigerian town of lassa?
oh. [pause] again.
the egypt visit was for the african union meeting where i'm guessing he was [miming quotation marks] meeting people from [more quotation marks] africa. which includes liberia which sent some members of their foreign ministry which has itself just been hit by an outbreak of jock itch. no wait. not jock itch. lassa fever.
i did say it up front. it's great to have the old team back together again huh?
and i'm greg.
you're not actually saying that i have too loud a cane?
only in the sense that it has a rubber tip on the end not a tap shoe.
okay we started badly. i apologize for the noise and we will try to figure out a way to be quieter <U+0096>
[whispers] wow.
i'm just gonna sit here quietly.
i feel like i've been inadvertently undermining your authority so i'm just gonna observe. not gonna say a word. [he zips his lips.]
[to cameron] uh i need you to spread your legs so i can do an h.
makes sense. i guess you don't need me. [he gets up to leave.] oh by the way you might want to close the blinds. it's really bright in here.
come on. give me the benefit of the doubt. you said he's a jerk. i barely talked.
you could be sipping courvoisier next to a replica of the playboy grotto if you tell him what you got on him.
the closest he's been to vietnam? ordering the mee krob at that place on the corner.
exactly.
i saw his mail.
no. he was holding it. private medical insurance. not from the va. plus he's got to be early 50s. he's too young to be a vet. so i looked further.
online. there's no reference to him in any of the vet records.
just look how you're acting. people have been tiptoeing around this jerk for years.
victims get pity heroes get adulation. it's way better.
i could prove this.
i didn't do anything the guy's a totally ass.
[tentatively] hello?
thought i had detected the sickly sweet smell of maple syrup and socialized medicine. it smells like victory. that big flag in your place prompted me to chat with your housekeeper. turns out you're a citizen of the great white north.
technically no. well technically yeah but two steps. hardly <U+0096>
speaking of you know what can get you six months and a $100000 fine? falsely claiming that you won a medal in vietnam.
canada did not send troops to fight in vietnam you idiot.
oh. on a related note go maple leafs.
it's scleroderma.
patient's dying. i'm done with clever. look at his skin. [he holds up a small photo from the file.] it's tight for a 75-year-old.
nodules? and you're calling tight skin subjective?
fungal lesions can be missed.
we treat wrong we could send this disease into overdrive. you're with me on the scleroderma.
we get it. you don't like the guy you didn't want to work on this case. and yet you're still here. why don't you take a stand? either do something about it or shut up.
i'll get cuddy. i can convince her to <U+0096>
i didn't break in.
i can fix this.
you're kicking me out?
hi honey. [he injects murphy in the neck.] how was your day? [he catches murphy as he passes out.]
morning. first of all my bad. i've gone through this whole thing recently. i don't want to bore you. short version: i'm really trying to do work on some stuff. this is a definite setback. although in fairness you really did make it tough.
phantom pain in your missing arm? five different kinds of painkiller in your medicine cabinet. that's what this magic box of neurological trickery is for.
this would be a lot easier if you do what the crazy guy who tied you up says. [he lets house put his stump through the hole. house removes the duct tape on murphy's left arm.] put your hand in there. put your hand in there. [house closes the lid on the right side of the box.] now look. mirror magic. your arm is back. [with the lid covering the right arm murphy sees his left and it's reflection. it looks like two whole arms side by side.] now clench both your fists at the same time. clench. real hard. [murphy does. he is also on the verge of tears.] if you believe in god pray that this is gonna work. you might also want to ask him why he blew off your arm. ready? now let go.
you want to curl up and cry the lounge chair's a little more comfy.
you know what that means.
so either you killed him by not having confidence in your opinion or you killed him by being too attached to your opinion. if you're anything like me <U+0096> and by the way you are <U+0096> you need to know which.
there's a reason i hired you. you used to know what to do with a locked door.
that's nice.
[joining wilson on the couch] huh.
i was nice. [pause] you really want to know?
you could have said no in good conscience.
which means i get... [looks excited.] oh cool.
[looking at the file.] maybe never. this game is fun.
oh... unfortunately i'm overdue a mani-pedi appointment.
oh right. well he's got all the time in the world.
17 doctors. everything's been ruled out. which means we have to re-rule out. get a new history and physical. [looks at foreman.] unless that's crazy boss.
[suddenly appears in the doorway.] got what covered?
we didn't. except of course the thing that killed him. [house stares at chase.]
nope. [smiles at foreman who looks back at the x-ray.]
[to the person behind him.] you should try searching for misty may digs for gold. [thirteen's turns around surprised.] make sure you put it in quotes.
so that's it? [turns his chair around so he can see her.] you're done with your little experiment with foreman?
good. 'cause if you came back foreman would try and save the relationship and he'd give up being the boss.
god no. trying to save my relationship with foreman. right now i'm kobe playing the game i love however the hell i want. phil jackson has to listen to everyone else bitch about it. [gets up and starts to leave.] enjoy cabo.
really? interesting.
good-bye thirteen. [leaves.]
don't usually see brain damage after a rectal biopsy.
not after spending the last week getting pumped full of iv antibiotics.
oh god it's... the virgin mary. [cameron rolls her eyes.]
[stares at the x-ray.] unless... the dural layer was already separated from the brain when the fluid started to build up. get a dural biopsy to confirm brain cancer. [to foreman.] nice catch.
okay. [goes to shut the door but thirteen stops him.]
i was talking to you. i was spying on the milf in the running shorts.
i don't want you back on the team.
which is why i don't want you back on the team. now that you're out of the picture he's better than ever which is going to make me less miserable than ever which is why neither of us gives a damn how when or on what island in the bahamas you went to get from it all.
costa rica?
i assumed you were lying because it would have been idiotic of you to tell me truth. yet another reason i have no use for you. [house shuts the door.]
since when has cancer been considered nothing?
on the other hand adenocarcinoma of the stomach would cause pain constipation nutritional deficiencies that could cause seizures.
you were right about the cancer just wrong about the place. [looks at chase whose mind appears to be elsewhere.] continue to say nothing if you agree. [chase looks up at house surprised.]
i'd get canceling her ticket if you then showed up with two more to somewhere better.
or showed up at all. but how does just ruining her plans get her to agree to yours?
well nowhere this week thanks to you.
i think... i actually believe you. if you're telling the truth you're even more rational than i... well not more. then again more sane. you're going to be a good boss boss.
and every time we look to see where it's coming from he starts seizing.
i think something is.
it's definitely not cancer.
[turns around to face them.] drug-resistant strain of what? bacterial cultures viral serologies ana and a nca were all negative.
i'd be a lot more certain if it was my idea but it's the best we got.
just waiting for whatever is about to go wrong.
she have a theory that makes more sense than abdominal epilepsy?
really? you're accusing foreman not me? cool.
makes sense. he loves power and i love puzzles.
true. but when i had them both... it wasn't foreman.
he said he's moved on.
i believe that he believes it. [house's pager goes off he looks at it.] looks like it's time for me to get off the bench. [walks into jack's room.] what's up?
i understand you're a big fan. i'll have my guy send over a signed glossy.
you paged me to tell me what it's not?
that... i did not expect.
darn it. i knew i should have stayed outside. fantasy's always much better than the reality.
i know. that's why it's so interesting.
fever stomach pain seizures peritoneal and subdural fluid collection and now spots.
that suddenly developed eight hours after he started the meds?
cns vasculitis would cause a stiff neck along with a headache.
go on.
not my decision. but if it was i'd say start him on prednisone and get a testicular biopsy. if he's going to have any real inflammation it'll be down there.
is it on his penis? [cameron stops and looks at him.] kid's rash?
means it's most likely affecting the small blood vessels. that's why we didn't see any inflammation on the biopsies. it's not polyarteritis. it's degos disease. [the all just stand there.] i'll do it.
your son has degos disease. causes micro blood vessels in the brain skin gi tract to break down clot off. it sometimes manifests early on with atrophic papules on the penis. in your son's case we don't know why but they came much later.
there isn't one. it's incurable.
we've rechecked the biopsies. it's definitely degos. i'm sorry. i wish there was something we could do.
not much longer.
a day at the most. [roy starts crying. house nods and leaves the room.]
that's the point. the billionaire thinks that the gods will treat him better if he's broke. i suggested he give it to me...
who said the world is supposed to work?
he's irrational. so are most people. unfortunately it doesn't make him insane.
people don't get what they deserve they just get what they get. there's nothing any of us can do about it.
why?
i know you didn't do it so i guess the first.
why would i care what foreman wants?
yes i am.
i just made a $10000 short sale on a stock i know is going to crash because of what i saw a grief-stricken dad do on his son's deathbed.
yes i did.
she's making a mistake.
she's a good doctor.
i'm not the one in charge anymore.
she's a smoking hot newly single bisexual.
because i was born with a heart three sizes too small.
yes i... [suddenly has an epiphany.]
he still alive?
good. start him on heparin and iv immunoglobulin.
the cardiac arrest wasn't just a everything goes to hell in a hand basket arrest. it was a coronary event. coronaries are large vessels. means it can't be degos.
obstructed blood vessels. but they can't be obstructed because of degos. means it's primary antiphospholipid syndrome.
nope. but i will be if he responds to the heparin and the immunoglobulin. [foreman nods and walks over to the nurses' station.] by the way someone screwed over your girlfriend and she ran to me cuddy and wilson. everyone but you. she's not over you.
the medicine worked.
fat old black guy. knew he had to be taking something for his cholesterol.
i'm not the boss.
why? i doubt we'll ever be treating a genocidal dictator again. better a murder than a misdiagnosis.
i'm picking lint out of my belly button.
six weeks. longer than i thought it would take... for you to notice that i'm sleeping in your living room and offer other options. [he sits up slightly but his hands are still under the covers.]
true but that's not why you didn't extend the invitation.
you didn't want me to sleep where you and amber slept.
after she died you converted the study to a bedroom and the bedroom to a study... except it's not a study it's a shrine. [pause] can i tell you something? [wilson gives him an inquiring look.] i wasn't picking lint out of my belly button.
[closing the file and heading for the coffee maker] there's no fuse. he's not a bomb. right now he's not a patient either.
i'm not ignoring it. i'm labeling it a coincidence.
we reconciled. [waving it off] it was a whole thing. big country. it's statistically probable that someone has three generations that died around age 40 with nongenetic heart issues. dice have no memory.
if we ran a battery of tests on every nonsymptomatic statistical anomaly <U+0097>
you want to take this case 'cause he's yet another lonely sad puppy. you should have been a vet.
that sold you?
and you?
he's only agreeing with you 'cause he wants to have sex with you. and by the way i agree with you too especially in those pants. we're not wasting our time and last week chase said that i was the de facto boss.
first we take berlin. and then we circle around behind poland and yell surprise!
i like things the way they are. i get just enough puzzle to solve without the scornful visits from you. until now.
i don't have a medical license. all i can do is pretend.
no i don't. [she turns back.] i'm not saying you don't win. i'm just saying do you really need to punish me by making me carry a clipboard for your lackey of the week?
exactly. the requirement sets out what you have to do <U+0096> certify <U+0096> which you can do with one hand tied behind your back. now if you want to tie my hands...
he'll be back in the morning.
second floor. a nurse will help you find him.
so did you come to see me for personal advice?
unless you were his girlfriend and his sister you got nothing to worry about.
[picks up the phone and hands it to her] dial extension 742. tell dr. foreman you got some cool information. good night.
yeah fine.
on your fingers.
oh! i see. wow sorry about that.
well we're all here to learn.
she tell you how to stop me?
well that obviously didn't come from her. but fair enough.
now i've done it. there's urine everywhere! gosh. the great thing about the teacher-student relationship is the teacher can often learn more from the student. [he picks up the sheet for recording his hours and shows it to singh.] have you learned anything yet?
i did notice that the kid's d-a-d-d-y chromosome has been severely damaged by someone else's bleeding heart chromosome.
i'm sure there are plenty of lies would've worked just as well except without the years of therapy.
recess. so where does that leave us? chase?
i was saying do you think these shoes work in this color? send him home.
you're not very good at your job. you don't deserve candy. [he grabs the mints from her.]
yeah i do. chase walk with me.
great contributions back there.
you had nothing to add... because you were distracted. a little devil on your shoulder told you to kill a guy and now the little angel won't shut up telling you you're gonna burn in a lake of fire.
you shouldn't be. [the elevator arrives. chase follows house down the hall.] talk to someone. docs fixed me up in seven weeks. you're... ten minutes tops.
glad we had this little moment. come on.
i'm dr. house.
you have ortoli syndrome. [chase's eyes open wide as he stares at house in surprise.] dr. chase?
tests don't lie.
blah blah blah blah. who cares about medical mumbo jumbo? tell him the treatment.
[pouring a glass of water] doctors always want to make everything sound so complicated. it's nabasynth.
nabasynth.
the real tragedy here is that the tiburon swab technology didn't exist to detect ortoli back in your dad's day.
if you'll sign these discharge papers i'll get you a bottle of meds. take one twice a day for a week you'll live a long healthy life.
are you watching tv? [the pounding continues.]
were you on the phone?
just now were you talking?
why are you here?
i sent the guy home with mints.
i missed the fact that there was something to miss. what is wrong with me?
what's the official cause of death?
good.
can we cut to the money shot? it's his heart so let's look at his heart. nice y-incision <U+00AC><U+0097> [he starts the saw again. foreman puts his hand between the saw and donny. house turns off the saw.]
really? 'cause i don't think there's anything i could screw up that we haven't already screwed up.
[balancing himself against the sink] i think the autopsy's gonna have to wait a little bit.
differential diagnosis for resurrection. go.
yes the fact that he's not dead means we did absolutely nothing wrong.
what if it's not his heart? [they all look at him.] let's work from the tenuous assumption that we're not idiots who've spent days examining a heart up down sideways <U+0096> declaring it healthy just a few hours before it basically shut down. so we need to think about causes in places you didn't look.
yeah.
autoimmune it is. start him on steroids.
what if i uh... if i sometimes hear whispering?
i had some dental work done in the philippines when i was a kid. adjoining metal fillings could corrode and pick up am radio signals.
so there's no reason for me to be hearing things.
i wasn't on my best behavior. i admit. [he picks up the form singh signed.] allow me. [he rips the form in half.]
that won't be necessary.
it's not necessary because i'm not ready to be a doctor again. i'm sorry.
just... dozed off in front of the tv.
maybe! i can't sleep in there. the heater's screwed up.
i'm just tired.
great. can you be right here somewhere else?
not today. i'm hallucinating.
it's nothing visual this time. i hear whispering.
i'm losing it.
i checked everything. what's really scary is that i hear whispering while not on vicodin. i'm gonna check myself back into mayfield.
okay? you don't think there might be a logical explanation? something i missed?
you know.
why are you talking to her? you run out of living people? you can talk to me. i'm right here.
[entering] sorry i'm late.
yesterday i wasn't. today i am.
feeling much better. thank you for not asking.
you are a woman. you can do anything.
[checking out her ass as he follows her into the hall.] are you sure you're only one woman?
i can see your nipples. your turn.
so it's not bone cancer. where's chase?
two mysteries cool. theories? [pause] did i come in too soon? okay i'm gonna take another lap. and i want three new ideas by the time i come back. one of them's got to be not stupid. [he starts to leave then stops.] where there's pain... there's nerves. hereditary sensory autonomic neuropathy type one.
and i like the word hereditary in the title.
nope chase specifically asked if he could do it.
sleep at home.
no.
are you getting some help? or is this the way things are gonna be from now on? what's pathetic is you haven't gotten help because you want to feel bad. you want to suffer 'cause if you feel guilty then you're not a psychopath. patient needs some carbamazepine. now i don't care how much that room scares you you're doing your job.
wouldn't want to be the duty nurse assigned to his floor. get it? doody nurse? [chase and foreman ignore him. cameron turns away with a look.] fine. do the doctor thing.
a disease that advanced would've hit the liver.
[nods] go treat with penicillamine. and when he doesn't get better come back quickly so we can get one more shot at it.
why?
you're uncomfortable with me.
good i thought it was because of the sexual tension.
there was tension. and... it made me feel funny so...
that's too bad. i was kind of getting into the whole hot-for-teacher thing.
yeah. false alarm. [pause] what about us?
by buttons you mean... [he stops mid-sentence and thinks.] huh. [he gets up to leave. as he passes cuddy he pauses and leans in close to her.] you do make me feel funny.
you're not gonna die.
in addition to high arches and some crystal bowl in the shape of a tuna you also inherited a self-destruct button. it forms in the brain stem. technically it's an aneurysm. presses on the nerves that control everything from tooth pain to heart rate. as you get older it gets bigger until finally... the button <U+0096> which i'll call intracranial berry aneurysm 'cause i had a friend in high school with that name <U+0096> stops the signal from your brain to your heart. and bam!
it does sound that way doesn't it? but this time no sugar pills. i'm gonna cut into your brain to make you think that i'm fixing it. and if our fake tests confirm it i'm gonna be cutting into your son's brain too [laughs] 'cause i'm just that committed.
unless he walks out of here and gets run over by a bus in which case i will reconsider your fate argument. [at the door] you want to give him a call? visiting hours don't apply to my patients.
yeah. that's what i thought. the saving the kid from pain stuff was crap. you just don't want anything in your life that won't let you do whatever the hell you want to do whenever the hell you want to do it. you've had it easy. sorry to screw you up.
[quietly] hi dad. i think i've been... focusing on the wrong thing. there were some good times. [long pause then loudly] wilson. this is stupid.
foreman expects me to read an xray on this itty bitty screen. he should have emailed me a larger phone. (he takes off his glasses and flips his phone shut) why are you packing?
we?
so has ramadan.
you should come with me. state pillow fighting championships. dollar beers wet t-shirts. in the words of the philosopher eddie money i've got two tickets to paradise.
fine. (dialing his phone) i'll let foreman know that the 16 year old patient with the severe edema can wait. relax i've got no idea what's wrong with her. so odds are not fatal. (wilson sighs as house leaves the room)
(from another room) still not going.
she's got rhabdo (rabdomyolsis). who wants to come to the pillow fighting championships? rutgers has got a great team this year so glad their anchor didn't turn pro.
it's rhabdo. patient gave you the answer. she fell down and went boom. we have to leave in an hour so should we eeny meeny?
hard landing caused crushed muscles crushed muscles release toxins into the bloodstream toxins cause swelling of the hands and legs. it's just another way of saying it's rhabdo. (looking at his watch) fifty-nine minutes.
(looking back and forth from chase to cameron) could you be sitting any further away from chase and still be in the same room?
can't really be any of those things since it's rhabdo. i know it's rhabdo foreman knows it's rhabdo deep in his heart even chase knows it's rhabdo. isn't it annoying when everybody in the room knows something you don't?
i've got a legitimate medical reason.
(leering) i forgot. i guess it's no big deal. i was only using it as an excuse to come check out patty and selma.
word on the street is you set a new personal best for low-cut.
it's a compliment. they're always smokin. oh i remember. i need you to authorize the medical discharge of a minor. (holding up a file) that's why i'm holding this in my hand.
(unashamedly looking at her derriere) haven't finished testing yet but it rha- (he notices the full outbox on her desk) your outbox is three times normal size. it's not a metaphor.
you take papers home with you. (he sits down on cuddy's desk) unless you're not going to be home. unless you were for example going to a medical conference.
me too.
i love that you checked.
that i have a case yeah. you're authorizing the discharge right now. (he turns to leave) that was a metaphor. (house leaves her office)
is he dying?
in the next ten minutes?
i've thought about it. you're right. i should go to the conference.
oh god no. she'll ruin everything.
(holding up his ball) two days away you think i should pack ball-y? (he throws the ball in the air and catches it with his open backpack)
the bomb was going to go off on its own if you'd kept quiet. so now you have to either come up with a convincing lie or tell her the truth. your choice. (house holds out his hand for the file chase is carrying)
of course.
hi. i'm your doctor. (he puts the open laptop down on the bed table. a music video of metallica's fuel is playing on the screen) this is lars ulrich the greatest metal drummer of all-time. you know the song?
good. (he hands her his cane) drumstick. (he pulls a funduscope out of chase's pocket and hands it to her also) another drumstick. i want you to rock out to the music the way you did last night.
go on. this is a classic medical test. hippocrates used it. let's go.
(air drumming in time to the music) come on you've gotta keep time! cross over on the high hat. let's head bang!
(still playing the air drums) the chart said her potassium's low. rhabdo elevates the potassium. (to jordan) and monkey drums. (to foreman) ergo... the levels must've been really low last night. which causes...
temporary muscle paralysis. given this rate of muscle fatigue there's no way she could've climbed stairs and then a fence to the pool. low potassium means no jump means no trauma. tests mean yes rhabdo. ergo something else caused both the rhabdo and the low potassium. this time start by getting an accurate history. (house gets up and picks up his computer) be careful. our patient's a big fat liar. (he leaves the room)
i like to know how much boredom i'm missing. (reading from the program) patient perceptions of complications in end-stage chemotherapy. you didn't tell me you were giving a paper.
last time you presented a paper you gave me an advance copy and asked for feedback.
(still reading) oh look! an '80s party. just when you think you left a flock of seagulls behind in your rearview mirror suddenly it's up ahead like an undead hitchhiker.
(he stands up and closes the car door) did you pack my leg warmers?
my god man! she's not some floozy in a bar. she's the floozy i work for. there's gotta be no radical steps here. gotta be subtle. we happen to attend the same party the chat happens to turn personal <U+0096>.
exactly. she'll be red and delicious before she knows it.
did her blood pressure drop during the barium swallow?
rules out chronic conditions.
talk to our little gossip girl. you need to know exactly where she's been and what she's done in the last 24 hours. oh i think <U+0096> (he pretends to be losing the connection and ends the call)
(taking the bag) it's my 25th consecutive year.
perlmutter loves the '80s.
you sure? they weren't specific.
it was in wilson's bag.
wait you didn't really take that seriously did you? i just wrote that for the money.
sorry we were just about to hit the floor.
i'm okay. as long as you don't expect rhythm.
you remember the last time we danced? med school the week we met.
i saw you in endocrinology. tracked you down to the hoedown.
ah.
(chuckling) i'd forgotten you knew how to party.
because professor siegal covered the same ground and was the easier grader.
and one thing led to another.
i was gonna call you.
i was gonna come see you. figure out where things would go from there. that was the morning i got the call from the dean and i was expelled
(waking up) it's 7:00 in the morning. somebody better be dead.
oh. (sitting up ) under the circumstances that's the best thing that could have happened right?
(he takes a bottle of water off the nightstand and gets out of bed) yes and it was almost 9:30.
we've moved on to a new phase. i tell cuddy that i've always
interesting reflex of guilt just now. your patient's been dying for six weeks. you couldn't have predicted he'd go this weekend. or could you?
(reading from wilson's computer) euthanasia: let's tell the truth. we all do it. that's a great opening line. are you insane?
whoa... i was just thinking of your career. but yeah if you're one of the doctors occasionally indicted i guess it could affect that.
someone should say that... in an unsigned letter
who cares? the oncology department is subsidized by drug companies. they don't want it run by a murderer.
and once again who cares? you won't be hirable anywhere.
yeah it's worked out great for me.
(holding out a bag of pretzels) pretzel?
studies show that $10 wine tastes better if you're told that it costs $90. i'm sure the same thing must be true of grape soda. (he pours grape soda into two glasses) have one. we can toast your pending unemployment.
i didn't know angela merkel was attending the conference.
i can't convince her that i've changed my entire personality in a weekend.
what does she need?
fjords.
you tell me that i've gotta show her i've changed and yet you act like
words can hurt you know.
it's quiet in there. is rachel asleep? i thought maybe you could use a babysitter.
oh. great. maybe later.
hey lucas.
a bit. that awkwardness would probably go away if i left. (he turns and leaves the room)
dr. wilson has asked me to tender his apologies for his absence. you'll be hearing my paper instead. unfortunately there wasn't time to correct the program schedule.
(reading wilson's paper) euthanasia: let's tell the truth. we all do it. we just don't talk about it. we play the game. we use other words or we don't use any words at all.
hmm. nice phrasing.
patient s a 55-year-old man. end-stage lung cancer. his pain was beyond the point where we could even pretend to treat it. i showed him how to use the morphine pump. i told him too much morphine would kill him but not to worry. the machine only gives out so much. to override it you need to enter a special code. i went to the door and told the nurse 'the code is 328.' i said it loudly. (he pauses and looks up at the audience. he looks down again and does not see wilson enter the room) when he first came to my office i told him i would be with him every step of the way. but i left him alone at the end. i broke that promise. to cover my ass i failed <U+0096>
i was wrong when i wrote that. i've never given any less than my best. i am incapable of turning away from a responsibility. my friends take advantage
(reading again from wilson's paper) this is a burden no one should have to carry alone. and this is a decision no one should make alone.
because frankly i don't trust all of you.
thanks for the message. continue.
(taking off his tie) you wanted the paper out there it's out there. and your job is safe.
i'm waiting for you to name something new to our relationship. you've got no good reason to be angry with me.
if this was about getting the story out there then yeah. of course if this is actually about something else... maybe you feeling impotent because patients keep dying and you think you need to make some grand stupid gesture <U+0096> you need to be a hero <U+0096> well then yeah sorry. i did screw it up.
my god there are 10000 oncologists in this country. every one of them loses patients. but only you would feel guilty enough...
(speaking into his phone) it's house. take down the bags.
it's not the meds. it's the blood that's killing her. what's everybody doing? you're stunned right? i mean blood?
is that the mom? i've got a good comeback if it's the mom.
sure she needs blood if you want to kill her. then you'd have nobody left to neglect <U+0096> great plan. your daughter has vibrio vulnificus courtesy of a few scrumptious oysters on the half shell.
thus proving that she did. boy that's neat.
is that the dad? i've got a good comeback <U+0096>
oh i thought the dad might've been australian too. there was nothing wrong with the oysters. all oysters have vibrio. but almost no one has hemochromatosis. it'd give her a unique susceptibility to vibrio cause the swollen joints. but it got attributed to bulimia so she got supplements<U+0097>
which overcooked the liver which caused bleeding. more blood more iron more bleeding more blood.
only if we give her high-dose ceftazidime for the vibrio and chelate for the hemochromatosis. now cameron pick up the phone and give me a dramatic exit. (cameron picks up the phone and disconnects the call)
so...how'd you two crazy kids hook up?
and one thing leads to another. (long pause) why keep it a secret? you protecting me in my fragile state? you think i was an unhinged looney who was about to go off the rails at a badly timed bit of news?
a ginger ale would be good. with lemon.
he looks like a guy who'd be there every day. minibar is restocked. i say we grab some pretzels for the road <U+0096>
yeah you should let her know that i drugged you so you wouldn't confess to murder. let's get out of here. (they turn and begin walking toward the steps)
first u.s. conference i've attended in 15 years.
toronto all weekend. airtight alibi.
or... porn actor hank hardwick born henry lefkowitz totally clean workup collapsed on the job with extreme photophobia.
yeah. let's wait till chase and cameron get here. i have a feeling they'll have the good sense to side with me.
oh good. you paged the limpness specialist. [she hands him a plain white envelope.] this envelope is oddly medical license-shaped.
that's kind of sudden. unless you've been circulating your resumes for a while.
moving too. interesting.
run an std panel and a tox screen. send a c-reactive protein to look for inflammation and an a.n.a. to screen for autoimmune. the rest of you take a history and do an lp to rule out viral encephalitis. [he turns and sees foreman sitting alone.] oh it's just you. here's hoping you're good at multitasking. [he takes his license and coffee and heads for his office.]
jew with megalophallus photophobia and muscle spasm. you tell me which is the most unusual. [he starts taking pictures with a camera just out of sight. he's in taub's office. the camera is set up to take before pictures of plastic surgery patients.] four candidates three slots on the team. need to know if you've still got your diagnostic chops.
yeah i agree. does sound pretty dull. no wonder you want to work for me. tox screen was clean we ruled out viral encephalitis. [taub smiles pleasantly and says nothing.] the only obstacle to you coming back is your wife. which has never been that much of an obstacle to you.
taub seems to think the link has to be the brain but eye and muscle are governed by different parts of the patient's second-favorite organ. [thirteen is leaning against her open door keeping him in the hallway.] which means it's...
of course. yes. it has to be multifocal.
back-up plan's fine. but taub's swinging for the fences. i suggest you don't divide your attention.
taub thinks it's a brain issue thirteen thinks it's multifocal.
don't take their word for it. taub's problem is his wife thirteen's problem is you. chase and cameron's problem is the dead african dictator. none of them has a problem with the work.
[nods] steroids to treat brain angiogram to confirm emg and nerve biopsy while you're at it. i'll be at lunch.
[to wilson] i'd hire all four but a five-person team seems unwieldy. who would you turn down? [to cashier] i'll have whatever he's buying.
they don't because their lives are irrelevantly and annoyingly complicated which makes them confused which makes them make poor decisions.
so i had an attraction of sorts.
and i got help. and she got lucas who bought me a ginger ale. it's all fine. which won't be true of my department unless i can figure out which doctor i'm not hiring.
[interested] what is the worst thing i could do?
and you're back in my office. so much for playing hard to get.
he's not without talent.
but isn't. no sign of shock. no drop in blood pressure.
right 'cause cameron thinks pornography is evil.
the ball and chain smacked you down.
start the patient on heparin for the d.i.c. broad-spectrum antibiotics for the meningococcemia. [chase and foreman leave followed by cameron.] dr. cameron. [she stops.] chase is relaxed at ease in lockstep with you again. i guess he finally told you that he iced idi amin junior. does that mean he can break the other nine commandments too? taking the lord's name in vain sure but coveting thy neighbor's wife? is she hot?
not for murder. not you. doesn't matter how evil dibala was. by every conscience-hugging mother teresa-loving bone in your body you should be leaving him not leaving with him.
we're not talking about my position we're talking about yours which doesn't add up.
i don't want that. but we'd be foolish not to plan ahead. a: my firing chase was the only reason you left two years ago b: when the full horror of his homicide hits you your marriage will blow up. and z... the only obstacle to you working here will be gone. or maybe i skipped a couple of letters.
[dropping the magazine he had his nose buried in] yes. i'm really happy with what the last guy did with my eyes. but why would broad-spectrum antibiotics fail to work on meningococcemia?
had to do something to amuse myself while your receptionist fought with her boyfriend.
a guy who needs two decades' worth of corn chips hoovered out of his neck or a guy who can't stand daylight and whose blood won't clot. you do the triage.
but you're not content with content. that's why you got sucked into those stock scams why you cheated on the wife you love.
why you worked on a case last time i was here.
but you'd knock over three other doctors to give it to him. metaphorically speaking you're a heimlich addict.
you have a tight schedule of nose jobs and tummy tucks.
nice. tell me that didn't feel good. [leaving] see you tomorrow.
i owe you an apology. i was wr-rr-r... i was wrr-r-rr...
you spent weeks elaborately concealing the fact that you... [decides to use a euphemism for the others present] crashed daddy's car. and then you just confessed. seemed idiotic. certain to end in disaster. instead you're riding off into the sunset together. any theories on why?
well it's possible. it would require the presupposition that everything she's done for the last six years has been completely inconsistent with her character but yeah it's possible.
or there's another explanation. since you don't have one i'm gonna keep looking for you. [he turns the intercom off with his cane.]
[at the window by the coffee maker] no matter how much you finish each other's sentences don't count on being a diagnostic package deal.
[loudly overacting] enough! enough! stop pummeling thirteen and taub. [normally] it fits. prep the patient for an ercp. see if there's any hope of opening his blocked bile channels. and tell him to start looking for a liver donor. [chase starts to follow the other two out] dr. chase. your turn. so what'd she say?
that works too.
only if you're interested. only if you have doubts about her answer. [chase turns to leave.] she thinks that you don't have anything to feel guilty about because you didn't kill anybody. i did. she blames me for dibala's murder not you.
but i created the big bad evil climate that allowed it to happen.
powerful counter-argument.
you got the tense wrong. things are already screwed up. which is why you don't just want to work for me you need to. cameron thinks you're my personal sock puppet. if you don't stay it's gonna be hard to prove you're not. i have to go.
[to the guy on the next treadmill] last week my cane could only do ten minutes.
waiting for you to take a nap so i can surge into the lead. [she walks away. he stops walking and slides off the end of the treadmill both feet hitting the floor simultaneously. he follows her to a machine.] what's the best way to restore the liver in someone with sclerosing cholangitis?
you already are.
you're doing core training. which improves balance which staves off the most debilitating symptoms of huntington's. you've ended your self-destructive streak. want to do something significant something that'll last longer than the few years you have left. my team is your first-best choice.
absolutely you should do that. three hours a week. every doctor should 'cause every doctor can. but you don't want to be every doctor. plus on my team you get to screw with foreman. every way but literally.
see this is why you'd be miserable wiping noses in a clinic.
are you asking me to ask you?
no neck veins are flat precordial exam was normal.
lymphoma it is. prep him for chemo. fax taub and thirteen the latest update on the case.
they have as much right to know as anyone on the team.
my strategy's not completely working. all four of them want to work for me but all four of them have reasons why they don't want to work for me. how do i get them to take one from column a and none from column b? [wilson is looking for something and not answering house.] right. right by not saying anything you're saying that the answer is inside me.
then it's not technically the answer.
because i know they're good. other doctors fall into the might be good category.
oh my god you're right. i don't need doctors at all. i just need a good friend. [he turns his head and cries holding his hand to his mouth.]
would've been more profound if you hadn't said anything.
long passes wild guesses anything.
if his thyroid hormone wasn't completely normal.
renal ultrasound was clean.
ablate the patient's bone marrow. find him a donor match.
well then come up with something better. [cameron sighs.] he may as well die while we're treating him. [he heads to his office.] okay with you if i bring the other candidates into the loop now?
trust me the case is almost over.
so do i.
you think that's gonna save your marriage?
four candidates three spots. i got a tough decision ahead of me.
'cause i think we're wrong. which means something's gonna go wrong. [his cell phone rings.] or right. takayama here.
because?
so his life of filth wasn't the problem. clean living was. let's start him on methylprednisolone.
worms. cool huh? [he hangs up the phone and gestures to chase cameron and foreman.] best out of three?
good news for your wife.
or you love her more. this job gives you the thrill you used to find through philandering. better to cheat with a beaker and an mri than one of your platinum-blonde plastic surgery patients. i'll let you know.
[quietly] four for four.
if almost not saving his life means <U+0096>
another one?
i taught you to think for yourselves.
as you celebrate their humanity i'd rather solve those little puzzles and save their lives.
the patient is alive. that's what matters.
your husband killed a patient and you're breaking up with me.
any idea where i can get a great big mission accomplished banner? got my sanity back my license back and now...
three out of four. which is almost as good as four out of five.
cameron.
yeah it is. she's broken up with chase and she's leaving the hospital. still three out of four ain't bad.
put it on dr. wilson's tab.
do you know who i am?
good.
thanks. although i should make it clear that for two bucks all you get is top half over the clothes. any plans for turkey day?
just making pleasant conversation. i've heard tell of folks doing such.
great.
sure. there's no point in putting a band together if we're not gonna play any gigs.
that was the old me. new me is static-guarded and friction-free. [he turns and walks away.] enjoy your drumstick.
ready to save some lives? [he throws the file on the table.] 32-year-old courier. ataxia anemia mild cough. ct was clear. tox screen negative.
why wouldn't i be? got all my starters back plus a couple of first-class free agents. i feel like mike tomlin. [he looks at foreman.] probably not as much as you do but you get the idea. [he takes a bite of his bagel.]
no fever lymph glands were normal. anybody seen wilson?
[scoffing as he heads for his office] yeah like that's a real thing.
anemia's a stretch. [picks up his phone] page dr. james wilson at 558.
come on. we get the tennis elbow and all the money. let them have sickle cell.
you didn't agree with him. that's why he dumped you. oh sorry. it was mutual.
sounds passionate.
one big happy family. ttp it is. confirm with a blood smear and adamts13 antibodies.
[ducking to look through a door then moving on] good. now what?
so?
yes it does.
wilson?
do you know where he is?
is that what a splenectomy is? i thought it was an ice cream treat. yuck.
yeah like i have time for games.
isn't it obvious? i'm fishing for a dinner invite.
missed you at breakfast this morning. and lunch.
[joining wilson] you know where cuddy's sister lives?
i've decided what i'm gonna do about cuddy and lucas. i'm going to break them up.
it's given me a purpose in life a goal a raison d'etre.
ehhhhh. i think of it more as benevolent. there's only two possible outcomes for their relationship. they split or they stay together forever. if it's split then the sooner it happens the better for everyone. if it's stay then my meddling won't matter. [elevator bell dings] in fact if they survive it it might even make their bond stronger.
and i've decided to do it at thanksgiving dinner. just 'cause i'm sentimental. dinner is at cuddy's sister's which brings us back <U+0096>
i fished for an invite. cuddy wasn't biting so i'll have to crash.
ask and thou shalt receive.
not help me help cuddy remember? if you don't get it i'll be forced to use more nefarious methods.
[spitting a pencil from his mouth into his hand] good news is it turns out to be an exciting action-packed thrill ride of a case after all.
[picks up the phone and dials] thank god he's still got his appendix and tonsils. so what looks like ttp acts like ttp tests like ttp but isn't ttp?
hi i'm greg house a friend of your sister lisa.
lisa cuddy. sorry. wrong number. [hangs up]
can't be dic. no hemorrhaging. and i'm calling all 12 julia cuddys within a 100-mile radius.
[on the phone again] hey julia. you're uh <U+0096> you're lisa's sister right? you sure? 'cause you are number 12.
[hanging up] probably kept her first name.
well you two do an unstandard tox screen; you two search his home. otis campbell's got to be hiding somewhere.
as have you diana. be well.
figured you might be getting backed up. the holiday season and all.
i have always loved to travel. and paint. lucky number seven.
wow. sexy and smart. lucas is a lucky guy.
[pause. exaggerated curiosity] so which is it? i'm dying to know.
peace in our time. it cost me 45 minutes of clinic duty. [he hands the paper to wilson.]
you think she'd send me to a vacant lot for thanksgiving dinner?
she is. that's why i ran it through motor vehicles. good as gold.
i don't want it to end well. you should come as my date. you're not gonna want to miss this.
makes me look adorably non-threatening. party [brown and orange] or party hearty [white and tan]?
[tossing the white and tan tie and putting the other one on] so guy's a brainiac and his secret drug of choice is booze? that's kind of pedestrian don't you think?
yes assuming the biopsy's gonna tell us exactly what we expect it to tell us it can wait till after new year's. on the other hand taub and thirteen can do the liver biopsy today.
juniority. welcome back.
same as me. have a happy thanksgiving.
julia?
key under the mat.
oh right. you need to replace one of your kitchen windows. i helped myself to your wine cellar. [he picks up an almost empty bottle of something.] i'll leave a buck on the way out. you're not right for her.
less wrong.
then i started thinking... [long pause while lucas waits] what was i saying?
she invited me. she didn't know if she should. she was trying to figure out if i really have changed or... if i'm still the same old s.o.b. i've always been. but she always gave me a chance. 832 chances. and i used up every one of them. 832's her limit. make a note.
i'm pathetic. i don't deserve her.
i love her.
i know there were a lot of consonants. [he winces slightly.] i don't remember how i got here never mind what i said.
i was drunk. whatever i said he can't really <U+0096>
it worked.
they split up this morning. you're the very first one i've told.
but her eyes say how will i ever pay you for that tennis lesson?
they'll get over it.
i'll get over it faster than they do. [laughs slightly] can't believe that lucas fell for my i never say this because it's so personal except that i'm drunk profession of love. second-oldest trick in the book.
[pause] he certainly is.
you're stupid.
he's not pedestrian he's stupid. at least stupider than he should be. he's a dxm junkie.
he wasn't taking it for his cough. it's cheap available at your corner drug store and taken in high doses it's a dumb drug.
he's smart compared to you. he's a moron compared to what he was. robotripping. lowers the iq. it also causes brain damage. unless taken with the proper amount of ethanol. about one drink per day. he wasn't abusing the booze and taking the cough remedy medicinally. he was abusing the cough meds and taking the booze medicinally. bravo.
long-term abuse of dxm explains all your symptoms. even <U+0096> oh sweet irony <U+0096> your cough. whole bowel lavage activated charcoal. we get all traces of it out of your system. you'll be the unhappiest little courier in no time. [he starts to leave.]
you'd be surprised what you can live without. make him a genius.
fainting dizziness shortness of breath?
only on days that end in day. diarrhea weight loss?
yeah. once a week. how 'bout you? stomach pain tenderness?
oh yes! don't think you're special. so we've got a lot of vague unverifiable symptoms. yet all the physical signs are perfectly normal.
i'm not sure but i think it's... a lame job.
you're a rat. insurance company sends you out to check on the quality of medical care.
is it really? 'cause you seem a lot more interested in asking questions than answering them. handwriting on your medical records is obviously not a doctor's 'cause i can almost read it. and when you went out for a urine sample i looked in your purse. found the list of questions you were supposed to memorize before you came to the clinic. i was looking for gum.
put it in your report. i tell you what. i'll give you 20 bucks if you'll pretend that i'm not when we leave this room.
remember first ice then heat. if you have any problems don't hesitate to call me.
wait a second. where's cuddy?
[he sees ronnie leaving.] hey hey hey! [she runs for the outer door.] sorry. i can't remember if i've mocked you yet for being a male nurse.
fair enough. [he leaves.]
not a stroke.
sorry to inconvenience you. dying patients can be so thoughtless.
great comeback. is that oscar wilde? come on people.
wouldn't produce schistocytes.
gee thanks for coming in. ana was negative. [to chase] what about you? got any predictable drivel you'd like to add?
well at least they're trying. they're not just sitting there like roadkill. give me something. give me something or i'll get your ex-smarter half on the phone and ask her.
against the ottoman i tripped over?
i'm pretty sure the ottoman was acting alone. you free for dinner this weekend?
mass hysteria. either night?
oh my god who got punched?
chase couldn't have punched anyone. he was with me when i tripped over the ottoman. if you're not planning on eating this weekend maybe a movie?
i need your help.
i was mowing the lawn when the phone rang. you're a computer. i'm gonna feed you data and you analyze it.
i know. but i don't have anyone else to ask.
it's not that bad.
not quickly.
enjoy.
what's a conscience? [he starts to leave then turns back.] which ribs... did you break in the fall? they on the left side?
gets absorbed by the spleen. unless he doesn't have one. in which case it's absorbed by the liver and fries that.
all organs do look kind of the same <U+0096> red and squishy.
12 years eight stories and a dumpster ago he broke three ribs damaged his spleen. bits of it split off circulated through his bloodstream until they landed and attached somewhere else.
16 splenectomies. pretty sure he gets a set of steak knives with that.
guess i deserved it.
your fist slipped?
so you busted my nose to keep people off your back.
making people even more worried about you.
[slight nod] fair enough.
don't be so grateful. you'll be delivering packages for 70 years to pay for it.
so what're you gonna do?
[standing] tell your brain i said good-bye.
ignorance is bliss.
[rising] dr. cuddy. can we at least be civil?
it's okay. does your kid like animals? i got tickets to that holiday carnival. i hear they have a nice petting zoo.
i don't mean with me. here. take 'em. enjoy.
they're not fake. i didn't steal them. one of the nurses was selling 'em for her kid's scout trip. i know it doesn't make things right between us but i just wanted to do something nice.
okay.
they didn't split up. she wouldn't take the tickets.
i wasn't gonna be there. she just felt guilty that i felt guilty so she couldn't take them.
these weren't reparations. just a simple gesture of remorse and she slapped it down. they didn't break up. she just wanted me to think that so i'd back off.
nothing. i said they'd either break up or they'd stay together. they didn't break up.
it is what it is.
[pulling the bandaid off] aah.
(singing) well i guess it would be nice if i could touch your body i know not everybody has got a body like you. baaby.
got the urge to play last night. had to go all the way back to my apartment. thought i'd save on future trips.
(looking at his watch) 6:33. you should be flossing by now.
is it that time of year again? he's a self-important jerk.
he's a self-important jerk.
guy calls you jim. doesn't even know your name.
it's why i'm loved. (to chase and thirteen) what am i doing here?
which means he's definitely not pregnant right?
draw some blood. (to wilson but not looking up from his phone) the self-important jerk does not have transverse myelitis. he's got cancer.
(closing his phone and finally looking up at wilson) okay. maybe i paid the redhead down in records a few bucks to cc me on all your cases. a few patients die you might get sad again. make a speech that would end your career. frankly i'm stalking you for you. (to thirteen) how long does a simple blood draw take?
well when you're finished almost finishing it test it.
why rule out the hand of god so fast?
(to wilson) your guy's low white count and right arm paralysis equals a recurrence of his leukemia. simple math.
it's still cancer. you know how i know? he's got an oncologist for a doctor.
i look for zebras because other doctors rule out all the horses. in this case you are those other doctors. you haven't earned a zebra. 100 bucks.
(standing up) look friends don't diagnose friends with cancer. i get it. your problem is you're not objective. your caring is clouding your diagnosis. just cut that out and you could be a pretty decent doctor.
(to thirteen) just give me the lactic acid level.
(house nods and goes over to juan) the fact that you can't speak english is not an excuse for you not being humiliated by what i'm about to say. it's also not an excuse for you not telling us that you were a tennis pro. if you had we wouldn't have wasted our time.
hey. can a guy get a little privacy?
actually it's perfect. it allows me to hide from cuddy and find you. what did she want?
that's it?
no problem. just give me the 100 bucks you owe me and i'm gone.
he doesn't have a ball of fungus in his lungs either. next time you want to use my team i suggest you at least leave a tip.
(pushing the intercom button with his cane and speaking to chase) why are you doing surgery when i need you finding me a new case?
oh right. guess i'm here for wilson. obviously you didn't tell me that cuddy was moving in with lucas 'cause you were protecting me. which is odd since i told you that i'm fine with their relationship. so obviously you question one of those assumptions or you have an issue with logic.
(scoffing) this is the 21st century wilson. i realize that the logical course of any adult relationship could one day lead to fornication. although the fact that she wants to buy a loft could actually mean that their relationship is not as serious as i thought.
if you bought into her diatribe about rediscovering her lost city girl roots. and two bedrooms. it just reeks of commitment issues.
this is classic mid-life cuddy crisis. this is her version of a two-seat convertible.
hmm. obviously something is knocking out his immune system. three options. hiv acquired scid or my personal favorite cancer. i'm sure you'll test for all three. (house leaves. chase and wilson look at each other)
oh i'm sorry. i didn't realize you were in the middle of something.
your patient has cancer. not that guy. who probably also has cancer. and he's probably also your buddy. (handing wilson a sheet of test results) thought you'd want to know. and you owe me 100 bucks.
(stopping to hand wilson a piece of paper) revised or schedule. sorry wilson had to bump you. it's not like your guy's bleeding out of his eyes.
the nurse who books the or thinks he is.
(pushing through the doors of the surgical suite) yeah but you're way more patient.
we just removed a screw from a guy's lung. and the weird thing is he didn't get better. any idea what that means?
no. it means i'm ignoring you to make a point. there is a difference.
that your idea is implicitly not worth responding to. doubling your patient's chemo dose is stupid. damn now it's explicit.
the fact that it theoretically should work doesn't make it any less stupid.
i'm me. you're you.
and chemo is poison. and double chemo is double poison. and i can handle it when things go wrong. you can't. and things could go very
don't care. i'm here because (looking at his watch) it's 1:15 and wilson started testing at 12:45. which means...
look on the bright side. you can publish the results of this case study. no one will ever double the dose again.
hope he already told you that you're gonna die. 'cause it's gonna make what i'm about to say a lot more relevant.
i was just in the er testing my patient for autonomic dysfunction. it's the only department with a shower big enough for the whole team plus the cardiac monitors plus me. anyway relevant part we're just wheeling the guy out trauma came in. motorcycle versus semi.
bad for the motorcycle. good for your liver. blood type's a match.
because there's a problem. no organ donor card. dead guy's sister
20 minutes away. (house and wilson rush out of the room)
did cuddy buy the place?
just making conversation. yours was getting boring.
i'm not planning anything.
okay now this conversation is getting boring.
(loudly) no! i am not okay. not even close.
no it isn't. it's just me accepting the fact that there's nothing i can do and moving on.
well if it is being a kid is a lot more fun.
showtime. (he gets out of the car and he and wilson walk up the driveway)
(approaching aikoa) what if i told you that he wasn't dead?
i'm saying you're being an idiot. but i don't have time to talk you out of your religion so i'm stuck with giving you a technicality that will let you justify
the last generous act of a living person.
well played. religion just killed another person.
late night with the pigeon sisters?
someone's cranky. (looking at his watch) and late. where were you?
i needed room for my margarita jello shots. i used test tubes as bottles so they'll be shaped like my cane.
why'd you go out drinking alone when you got such great company here?
and you were out drinking. so you're actually considering this?
(standing up) your mouth says no but your pathetic attempt at a deflection has guilt written all over it.
you cured his cancer.
quibbles.
he's had a predictable complication. surprise. bad things happen to people who are sick. doesn't make you responsible.
a table is a table. don't be a doormat wilson.
(rising) why?
i'm your friend. all the pain pills i've taken. what if i need your liver?
they're all dying. they're all your friends.
no right that's room 12a. so why are you here? want to make sure that i've called the moving van?
no.
(looking wilson right in the eye and sounding emotionally vulnerable) because if you die i'm alone. (he looks away and sits back down behind his desk rubbing his leg)
(taking off his glasses and putting them in his shirt pocket) you ready to admit that he's a self-important jerk?
you don't feel angry?
disappointment is anger for wimps. you don't have to be so gentle about everything. it's okay to get angry once in a while.
actually you can. just need a coat of paint and the guts to use it.
you're gonna outbid her?
you got mad. i'm proud of you. cuddy won't share that sentiment. how are you gonna explain it to her?
(looking around at the fireplace and the large windows) she'll find out eventually.
baby steps.
assuming you did this shaving your forehead... okay then. i'm ordering a head c.t.
actually stitching you up is really the e.r. doc's job.
yeah. also a lot of cops in the e.r. [pause] not that you care about that. so how did this happen? [looks from mickey to eddie] yeah you're right. that was a stupid question. 'cause the answer's kind of obvious. no scrapes on your hands means you didn't try to break your fall. means either out cold or totally disoriented when you went down. no sign of trauma other than the cut means no one hit you in the head. powder burn on your jacket sleeve means someone shot a gun.
i don't care what you guys are into. if you don't get this checked out it'll happen again.
this. [he slams his cane against the paper-covered exam table. it makes an explosively loud crack sound. mickey and eddie stare at house for a seconds then mickey crumples to the floor. house peers over the exam table at him.] cool.
32-year-old man recent developed loud-noise-induced vertigo. c.t. was clean. no internal bleeding no edema. everything else is in the file. [he sits then leans toward chase.] cameron get your hair in the divorce?
yes he won't tell us anything. understandable since he's a drug dealer.
not out loud. but he was wearing a solid gold patek philippe. his friend had a rolex. but their phones were prepaid burners so they can toss 'em as soon as they're done.
acoustic neuroma fits. so does lidocaine toxicity. or benzocaine <U+0096> depends what he's cutting the coke with.
he seemed peppy. you test his ears. i'm gonna go test his cocaine.
i hope not.
i need the drugs.
[screams his face furrowing down the center in a very good imitation of sabretooth from x-men] i need the drugs! hmm... works for jack bauer.
but way less genre-appropriate. okay here's the deal. i need information. you have reasons not to give me that information. so either i can force it out of you... [eddie looks skeptical] or i can't.
okay... well let's work with that. forget the drugs. let's talk about textiles. what's your major product? is it h? and by that i mean hosiery.
is that with a c or a k?
does your friend cut the fabric?
well he must cut a culotte here and there.
[walking over] i'm interrogating a suspect. make it quick.
we're grown men over the age of 30 who moved in together. we're two tigers away from an act in vegas. they'll figure out we're straight eventually.
if only there was some way to communicate that information to her. perhaps using i don't know sounds. if only the larynx was capable of <U+0096>
and a woman would only reject you because she's worried that you might not be interested in her.
when she thought you were gay. [to eddie]you sure your friend isn't secretly tr <U+0096> [turns back to wilson] what is a culotte anyway?
it's an ear test. pretty sure he'll live.
[whining] but we're doctors all the time. it's so boring. [speaking normally] fine.
get an ultrasound of his carotids. see if his arteries are clogged.
our patient sleeps in the building where they keep their stash. eventually he'll say something that gives away where that is. and we'll find out what's making him sick.
you ruled out environmental causes.
carotid stenosis was a decent idea. but an even decent-er idea is that he's got toxins stored in his fat cells. every calorie he burns makes him sicker.
tell him it'll take weeks. it'll be faster.
3-b? you're nora right? my roommate tells me you're the one to thank for all the tips about the neighborhood. greg.
i hear you thought that wilson and i liked to polish each other's swords. and by swords i mean pistols.
oh don't worry. actually i'm surprised that doesn't happen more often. we're both straight. [there's a flat package about 6 feet tall wrapped in brown paper leaning against the wall. house rips the paper off. it's an enormous framed poster from a chorus line. house steps back and clasps both hands and his mouth admiring it.] oh my... god that is beautiful. [to nora] we finally have the room to display it the way it deserves. would you <U+0096> would you help me get this upstairs?
nice shoes by the way. louboutin?
no it doesn't. where's foreman?
true amusing and irrelevant. foreman fall for the paycheck thing?
mazel tov. should be fun to watch.
wherever he went it wasn't for long enough. add in the fever and infection's way more likely. and if it is an infection his symptoms suggest it's moved to his brain. which means...
the london and new york recordings are so different.
she didn't believe me either.
correction <U+0096> i started doing this to mess with you. now i'm honestly trying to hit that.
[standing] we're in a relationship and we're really unhappy. communication's never been easy for us. probably 'cause we're so closeted. i got it all figured out. nora and i spend the next few weeks hanging out become best girlfriends. i confide in her about our issues.
then one night we get drunk... back rub turns into a front rub... the next morning i've never felt this way about a woman before.
i'd like to date her. in the sense that i'd like to jump her repeatedly.
seriously? you're invoking the guy code?
you're only bringing this up 'cause you know you're gonna lose.
the hair is still bumping me. did you get it cut because you're ready for the next chapter or <U+0096>
that would be a mistake.
[over his shoulder] well then you got nothing to worry about sweetie.
you're a wuss.
what are you gonna beat me up? that sounds stressful. maybe you should pop one of your beta blockers first.
medically no. he would have told us about that. metaphorically...
when was your last pill before we originally admitted you?
and we stuck you in here and you went into beta blocker withdrawal. that's what caused the hypertension. when he got out of here he took another pill and the hypertension went away. which means it was never a symptom. we take that off the table we've got vertigo fever...
pheochromocytoma.
it's greek for you'll be back doing bad things to good people in no time. [to chase] m.r.i. his adrenal glands. you're okay with that right? you're not gonna put a pillow over his face?
we're having a picnic... with wine.
he doesn't drink.
[to thirteen] that receiver doesn't respond to manual stimulation. maybe if you took off your shirt.
there's got to be at least one open frequency.
i need a few minutes with your friend. or stay if you want. [he grabs a rubber glove and waves it around.] rectal exam.
[dropping the glove on the bed] why the beta blockers?
valium and xanax actually reduce stress. beta blockers just control the symptoms of stress.
keep the heart from racing hands from shaking and all those stage fright issues. that's why some people take them when they perform.
this is my bug. [he puts it in his pocket.] and this... [reaching between the pillows on the bed]
this... this is yours. [he pulls out another one.]
an informant would have sold his pals out to us at the first sign of a sniffle. this guy... is a cop.
in the land of no fun you got a really sensible piece of property.
good point. you know what they say. information is not power. wait...
force? i'm talking about the womanly art of persuasion. [she starts toward the room.] i said womanly.
and the moron still won't talk.
pretty much.
i'm sure the dealers who take their places will be very grateful.
got a better idea?
the jealousy is... killing me.
why can't he show it in a <U+0096> in a normal way? i'm so tired of... the whole silence and the resentment. i don't know if i can go back there tonight. [dean martin's sway playing] [voice breaking] i need some time.
really?
that would <U+0096> that would be... it would be such a help. thank you.
what are you doing here?
nothing you can say is going to change anything.
wow. this is unexpected.
no <U+0096> no no no.
looks like somebody missed something. which is embarrassing for somebody.
somebody's got a good point.
[staring at the scans] do it.
kind of a bad time.
right. [he mumbles something as he gestures for her to have a seat.] this whole thing with wilson... it's all my fault. we're not closeted because we're not gay. [she smiles disbelieving.] for real. [she stops smiling.] wilson thought you were cute and i was just yanking his chain. maybe that's not the best phrasing.
god no. i was spending time with you because i want to touch your boobs. [she puts her hand to her chest.] enough to listen to evita twice. and i really hate evita. that's how much i like your boobs. [she puts down her hand and stands to go.] wait. whoa whoa whoa. wait wait. [he gets up and comes to her.] wilson... he's a really good guy. and he really likes you.
wilson's a jerk too.
he's been divorced three times. he slept with a dying patient. sure he looks like a boy scout but then...
the aneurysms look mycotic but they're not. they're inflammatory. because this is not a fungal infection. the hypertension was a real symptom. you've been unwittingly treating it with beta blockers. you stopped taking them and your blood pressure went up. it's hughes-stovin.
if you die in the next day or so i will be.
he died a hero in his own mind. guess it's better than nothing.
mendacious dirt bag comes much more naturally to me. least we can get rid of that. [he gestures at the a chorus line poster.]
it's 500 bucks. and... [he pulls a lever on the side] it reclines.
i will punch you in the face.
[glares at him] no chance.
tell her to stop lurking in the front row. if she wants to hit on musicians that's what tour buses are for. next.
try it. try it.
tell him to masturbate no more than 3 times daily. with meals. next.
wild guess he's rich.
(holding out his hand) gimme...
no that would be an accident of genetics. it's because she's hot and her husband is ugly. it's a fascinating window into the mysteries of human psychology. also she's really hot.
(reading the file) she loves something about him.
it's not the ear it's the heart. her protein is cheese which can raise cholesterol. hers was already elevated. gave her arterial blockages.
so beauty and the beast. (he hands the file back to chase) who wants to go see? (house's phone rings)
(rolling over) got to avoid my natural habitat. some idiot i went to med school with keeps leaving messages and wants to drop by for lunch.
it's complicated.
a few months ago he was... sort of part of my therapy. my shrink told me to write a letter of apology to someone i hurt.
we were in a seminar on flatworm genetics. i switched my final paper with his.
i was testing a theory. i thought that our professor was biased against me. i assumed he'd get a high grade with my paper and i'd get a low grade with his. interestingly i was wrong. i got an a.
yep. lorenzo wibberly.
not everyone has a name that's so easy to find in the white pages.
yeah. and yet i picked him. it's funny isn't it?
(loudly) we said we'd never go to sleep angry.
undisclosed location.
(looking at two framed photos on the coffee table) wilson. and the lunch date that wilson is no doubt right now trying to sic on me. but in the great game of chess that is our relationship wilson sees only one move ahead. (he sits up and picks up the photos) i see dozens. that is why he will never mate me. (when there is no response from the team house clarifies) that's a chess term.
so he's poisoning her.
(riffling through cuddy's desk drawers) does he have dry skin? thin eyebrows? if you're sharing an amazed look please do it louder.
if he has hypothyroidism and he dumped his meds in her coffee that would make her heart go boom. (taking one of the photos out of the frame) in a bad way.
(taking the other photo out of its frame) and she's hot.
yeah foreman. why did you break up with thirteen? oh no wait the non-subtextual thing she was saying why that?
great start her on beta blockers.
(to himself) check and mate.
(looking uncomfortable) thanks. so where are you working these days? you got your own practice or you at a hospital?
as an in house doctor?
why didn't you graduate?
(almost afraid to ask) which credit?
(hopefully) so i'm guessing you're the ceo of this supermarket chain?
psychopaths always fascinate me. i think it's their cultural literacy and strong family values. or is that jews?
hmm. i got an idea. (to bill) can you get out of here? thanks. (bill leaves. house looks at foreman) it was the thanks that did it.
(to valerie) hi i'm dr. house. how long have you been a psychopath?
psychopathy can get a bad rap. it doesn't necessarily mean you're violent. just that you're completely without conscience you lack any normal emotion you manipulate everyone around you you're promiscuous you lie pathologically. any of this ringing bells?
yeah <U+0096> though you have darwin to thank for that. she got the creeps around you. which oddly is an actual medical phenomenon around psychopaths. probably an evolved response to predators.
relax. we have a duty of confidentiality. and you have an undiagnosed heart problem that could kill you at any moment. we believe that your mental abnormality is related to your physical one. so if you want to keep on predating...
you sure you understand what the word no means?
told you he was rich. she's not that weird.
tell me about it. some of my co-workers will insult people right to their faces. how long have you been this way?
so psychopathy plus cardiac arrhythmia. go.
two rare conditions in one patient it's a fair assumption they are.
her disease isn't gonna lie dormant that long. did her heart warp her brain?
it'll be super awesome when we find it. (he stops in front of the elevator and pushes the button)
fits best. start her on penicillin and rule out wilson's and hashimoto's. there's your handful. wasn't so hard was it?
yes and she got it right and you got it wrong.
you're her boss. in some vague never to be usefully defined way. you punish her.
the fact that you also fired her takes it from a little complicated to a little moronic.
it wasn't because you were too in love with her. it was because you were too in love with your career. we're almost at my floor so i'll summarize. your problem not mine. (he gets off the elevator)
that rare daguerreotype. you can charge me for the effort it takes to search your hard drive for a new copy.
right. i had forgotten your deep emotional attachment to lemurs.
you got his tail?
well i could stand here all day apologizing but i'd rather expiate my sins with good clean work.
you ignoring my texts?
tambi<e9>n de la medicina (also of medicine.) doctor wilson me llam<f3> a una consulta (dr. wilson called me in on a consult.)
wibberly's got some agenda. probably trying to guilt me into getting him a better job.
not at all. that's how i know he's got an agenda.
entonces no te lo hubieras golpeado (then you shouldn't have hit it.)
no te preocupes. (don't worry.) el dr. wilson es un muy buen m<e9>dico.
qui<e9>n tiene una enorme consideraci<f3>n por los pacientes por su propia batalla fatal con impotencia. (dr. wilson is a very good doctor. who has enormous empathy towards patients which stems from his own crippling battle with male sexual dysfunction.)
all i'm responsible for is the foreseeable consequences of switching papers. a bad grade or a sleepless night worst case a retest. there was no way to know that one seminar paper was gonna destroy this idiot's life.
good point. if he's happier there's no harm done. i'll go find out.
(to jose) always with the modesty this one.
la siguiente vez que tu quieras drogarte secretamente y confundir tu dedo con un clavo las gotas para los ojos son buen remedio pero usa menos por eso es que estas llorando demasiado. (next time you want to get secretly stoned at work and mistake your thumb for a nail? eyedrops are a good call but use less that's why you're tearing up so much.)
i'm cool. how's work? you happy with it?
free time... wouldn't have any of that if you were a doctor.
(looking out the sliding glass doors at the back of the house) is that your yard? that's nice.
i don't have a yard myself. you got a good thing going.
(looking around the living room) so what are the boxes for?
from paradise?
you're losing your home.
how?
(looking at a lab report and then putting it down on the table) neither do i but i know what happened after. she called cuddy and demanded that i kick you off the case. i backed you up because i trust you. but you're gonna have to earn that trust now.
there is that. so heart and kidneys.
nope psychopathy is not a symptom.
in the meantime kidney failure ruled out syphilis and testing ruled out the other ideas that would've fit.
get her to radiotherapy.
those of you who haven't slept together you can go. everyone else stay behind.
(to foreman and thirteen) go have sex.
fine i'll cover the viagra and the lubricants. just get me a receipt.
(rising from the chair) well that's too bad 'cause things worked much better when you did. would it help if i slept with her?
no we were already at the diagnosis. you were creating a fake argument about an irrelevant treatment issue 'cause you can't stand to be around each other. so have sex fight or quit i don't care. whatever you're doing now isn't working. (he picks up the file and goes to his office)
so when you watch star wars which side do you root for?
just checking in on your radiotherapy.
i want to know how you like being a management consultant. i'm thinking of getting into it. that or psychopathy maybe. which pays better?
i'm sure you understand what joke means.
of course i'm self-interested. we all are. we're born that way. the rest of us are born with consciences.
i'm not saying it's logical. i'm just saying it's human.
great. you be the clock. everyone else will be the doctors. heart kidneys now liver.
that's our best guess. start her on steroids.
man one false accusation from a psychopath and you turned out to be a real bummer. i'm gonna go see if wilson has any liver left.
paying wibberly's mortgage for a few months. (he rips the check out of the book) congratulations on another successful round of hectoring.
no. it's a giant novelty item for winning the lottery. you're just standing really far away.
(putting the check in an envelope) i don't know. he just kinda smells good and makes me laugh.
maybe because i recognize that sending someone to the poorhouse is a little more serious than editing a snapshot.
(addressing the envelope) oy. if it will make you shut up i will tell her i'm sorry about the photo.
she wasn't in love with me.
(fed up and leaning back in his chair) what do you want? helping the guy was your idea.
you had me at much easier. i'm gonna pretend to go to work now. (house bangs loudly on his keyboard and pretends to return the carriage as if on an old typewriter) bing! (wilson looking disgusted leaves)
so liver heart brain can lie dormant and it starts at puberty. (he pauses thinking) the raw food diet made it go fulminant... nuts are high in copper. it's wilson's disease.
there is one other sign. i know there are lipstick lesbians. are there nail polish remover bisexuals?
as a doctor. you didn't say anything about her capacity as a beautician's assistant.
yep. (to thirteen) start her on chelation.
tax shelter. i'll take some of that chili now.
fine. forget the chili. bye wibberly. (house stands up to leave)
why are you telling me this now?
(giving the check back to wibberly) keep it.
just take it. i screwed you over.
take it.
(yelling) do i have to shove it down your throat? (he pries open wibberly's hand and forces the check into it) take the damn check!
canoeing. but i seem to be taking on water.
no canoe in my bathroom. [deep breath] my leg hurts. soaking it makes it feel better. you were the one who had to have this condo. maybe next time you should consider amenities like two full baths instead of just the joy of outbidding cuddy.
well then you owe me 35 bucks for the grab rail i installed.
hit the kill screen. boss is here.
bummer.
football player. those are the ones that get hit in the head a lot right?
so it's roid rage. you don't think they grow them that big naturally.
only proving that our guy got his hands on the good stuff.
why? he injects his sore ankles with lidocaine every game. you think he's above injecting steroids?
fine. bilateral venous sampling to find the elevated gnrh. mri to find the pituitary damage. [the team starts to stand.] unless of course there is no pituitary damage in which case our guy got his hands on the good stuff.
foreman. let the peasants handle the peasantry. your brother needs to get picked up this afternoon... from prison. your older brother in case your confusion is related <U+0096>
he left a message. said he couldn't get you on your cell or at home. i get it. you're busy. you'll pick him up the next time he comes out of prison.
you're officially unbusy. family is family. take the rest of the day. go see your brother.
there's nothing wrong with your eyes.
or you enlisted you got the cool haircut and the awesome pants then you realized that your plane ticket to the middle east was coach and you decided to rethink your promise.
so our homeland should be unsafe because your private was unsafe.
i don't care about the fact that they don't care. [going to the door]
why?
viet?!? how old do you think i am?
well back in my day the real dodgers had the stones to run up to canada or shoot themselves in the foot. they didn't come to free clinics whining for doctors' notes. go hug your wife. tell her to get a babysitter. you'll be back in time to video the kid's first steps.
i don't need to see the scan. i can tell from your little puppy-dog eyes that his pituitary's fine. are you gonna say it or should i?
next time with feeling. put the cheater on a somatostatin analog to clear it out of his system. send him back to his football game.
oh right. you two know each other.
oh! who are we kidding? interview's over. you got the job.
my new assistant. part of his parole <U+0096> he needs a job. just trying to do my part.
family is family. [he nods for marcus to go with foreman.]
well if it was fine it wouldn't go aflutter just 'cause you walked into the room.
thank you sir. [to foreman] judging by the look on your face i assume you're upset that big bro didn't take your advice and skip town.
it was fun. [to marcus] put lunch in the books just you and me.
well naturally you jump right to a urinary issue.
it is? hmm. well naturally you think it's not a urinary issue 'cause you're so embarrassed about your own past urinary issues you don't dare broach the subject. [he takes a sip of his drink while foreman stares at him silently.] oh come on. you spending the night over at bobby samson's.
we're not buying it eric. we never bought it.
whoa whoa whoa. let your brother speak. what happened to hank gathers?
rage and tachycardia are warning signs.
hey i don't care where an idea comes from as long as it makes sense and embarrasses someone.
as a former psychiatric patient i take offense at that terminology.
whatever happened to coherent conversation?
i have no idea. everybody else thinks hypertrophic cardiomyopathy makes sense? [foreman opens his mouth but doesn't say anything.] good. stick the patient on a treadmill. stress his heart until it stops.
only real treatment is for the patient never to stress his heart again which means we have to tell him to retire at the ripe old age of 21. stopping his heart speaks louder than words. go.
because it's fun. maybe you should give those bills to the guy who left his own bathroom window open.
i want to learn more about one of my employees so that i can manipulate him and destroy him if and when i choose. information is power.
okay. why don't you tell me my real evil plan?
oh shut up. you can't accuse me of an opossum attack and underhanded kindness in the same visit.
either we find a bigger treadmill... or... [grabs his jacket and leaves]
did i miss the memo about you being released?
all excellent points. give me your arm.
it's a vasodilator. since we can't exercise your son's heart on the treadmill i'm gonna have to do it chemically.
you're turning white.
it means he doesn't need football to get a good job anymore.
you really think a guy with stenosis could've aced that treadmill test?
[turning to look] and a nameplate. man's got to have a place he can call his own.
hang an ethanol drip.
if it's lymphoma the ethanol will make him itchy and foreman can remove his spleen. if it's takayasu's he'll lose his radial pulse and chase can start him on steroids.
[hollers] marcus!
he's busy spying on his little brother.
what?
you obviously have a theory as to why demeaning is not demeaning.
do you even listen to yourself?
what's her cup size?
[exasperated] oh! seriously? i give you a choice between moving to canada and shooting yourself in the foot and you chose the bullet?
you think this is gonna get you discharged? we'll patch it up and send you right back.
look you got screwed over by your own government and that sucks. but all you're gonna get out of this is a five-day vacation and a band-aid.
you got a girl pregnant. you're still just a guy.
ahh.
lying in wait. [he turns on the torchiere by his head.]
right... play innocent. like you weren't looking for revenge for the prank that i didn't pull.
of course you realize this means war.
wilson annexed the sudetenland.
[hanging up his coat and taking the drink from marcus] kind of like the time you took your mom's birth control pills on a dare and ended up with swollen nipples.
right and your nickname all the way up through high school wasn't erica.
it would also be accompanied by a significant decrease in muscle power. marcus! a chance to redeem yourself. does our patient look strong to you? [marcus shrugs.] sorry eric. big brother disagrees with your diagnosis.
you said the liver was inflamed not the spleen. can you believe they let this guy perform surgery?
what are you doing?
permission denied. continue.
d'you think he's an idiot marcus?
okay. go test his blood. [the team packs up to leave. house turns to marcus.] come on. we have a lunch scheduled.
so you jerked me around. your allegiance lies with your brother. i get it. admirable. but here's the problem. i hired you to tell me the truth. if you don't do that you no longer have a job.
he was arrested for grand theft auto.
try me.
was it your idea?
so the problem is not in his blood it's the blood itself.
i usually love breaking bad news. but in this case... start the patient on warfarin. [to marcus loudly as foreman leaves causing him to turn around and look] i'm so sorry about that. you were saying...
[listening intently] wow. you got off easy.
y<U+0096>your mother's dead?
i had an epiphany.
[closes the door] flathead screwdriver.
it's not a game. it's proof that you didn't rig the grab rail and make me fall.
i can't go on that. but i can go on the fact that i had to borrow a flathead screwdriver from nora to install the thing 'cause we only had a phillips-head. and then of course i returned it late that night in a completely successful effort to see her braless...
which means that you didn't have the tool to sabotage the grab rail.
now i also have proof that i'm not responsible for the opossum because i'm absolving you of responsibility instead of escalating which you know is not my nature.
[ominously] the opossum... was meant for me.
did you even go to college?
you see that's just illogical 'cause i'm staying up too.
i gave you empirical proof that i did not prank you.
i don't master-prank.
see this is exactly what our nemesis wants <U+0096> divide and conquer. can't you see that?
i'm telling you if you sleep now you're gonna wake up next to severed horse heads. or worse the rest of it.
[smiling] oh this guy is good.
zer is a reason for everything mes amis. i am tro-bled to report that we have a criminal in our midst.
[still french] you each had motive. you each had opportunity.
not so fast mademoiselle cuddy. no one leaves here until they can account for their whereabouts on the evening last.
[normal voice] okay no one who is employed by me leaves here until they account for their whereabouts the evening last. what about you professor chase?
because you hold me responsible for breaking up your marriage.
can either of you prove that?
for now. what about you colonel taub?
really? your wife.
good enough. [to foreman who is smirking] 'cause i had you pegged all along. you certainly had all the motive in the world.
yesterday i confirmed that you are a liar.
well at least a liar by omission.
get this class. foreman's mom died. he ever tell any of you?
and to top it off you refused to say anything nice about her at the funeral.
you want to hit me don't you?
antibiotics aren't working. we're gonna switch you to different ones but you're gonna lose your toe.
as a general rule before you celebrate do a little research. the army's medical evaluation board is perfectly fine with nine-toed infantrymen as long as they can walk and run.
well played. if only we could combine your medical chicanery with your brother's ability to fetch me mochas you'd be the perfect foreman. where are you?
actually we do have a new symptom. any of you take a look at his readmittance chart? between the time he checked in and the time he rechecked in our patient lost a single pound. patient like that would usually shed over ten pounds.
we've eliminated lymphoma. what other cancers mimic growth hormone?
it was a rhetorical question. i don't really care. go test him for all of them.
it's foreman.
well that's the whole point <U+0096>
why don't you leave me out of this? wilson was the one who bought the place.
actually i suffered more now that you just tripped me.
why would you out yourself? you can't even imagine the retribution.
maybe i was wrong about the weight loss.
what if it's not inside?
you know why you're black?
hmm. what i was going for was melanin. you got lots of it. [he starts inspecting the palms of daryl's hands.] it makes your skin dark protects you from the sun's harmful uv rays.
unfortunately it also prevents even those with advanced medical degrees from considering melanoma as a diagnosis. other hand. [he examines daryl's left hand.] on the rare occasion that black people do get skin cancer they usually get it on the white parts <U+0096> palms and soles of the feet. [he pulls the blanket aside and starts checking daryl's feet.] but your hands and feet are so smashed up from football my team are likely to have written off any skin blemish as a bruise. but now that i know that melanoma is the only thing that fits... come take a look at this mom. [there's a freckle between two of daryl's toes.] there's the thorn in the panther's paw. paraneoplastic syndrome. your body forms antibodies to fight the tumor. [cgi of the antibodies traveling through daryl's body.] those tiny little proteins travel through your blood and wreak havoc. we remove the cancerous mole everything should be fine. i'll tell dr. chase to schedule the surgery.
did you study really really hard? [daryl gives him a look.] then the same crappy life that the rest of the guys you'll be graduating with are gonna lead... minus the student loans.
that's nice for them.
i provoked marcus to quit because he was no longer useful to me. i hired him to get information. i got information.
we're not.
(approaching from behind) hey boss lady! you don't answer emergency pages anymore?
(following cuddy toward her office) turned out it wasn't a resistant staph but i still say that if it had been infecting him with malaria <U+0096>
(still following) you're lying.
not talking about your meeting. i'm talking about the phone call.
(catching the door with his cane and following her into the office) i was with your boytoy on a stakeout last night.
he needed someone who could diagnose a soft tissue injury from across the street. apparently he doesn't know any good doctors.
things got a little slow so we made some wagers. one being whether i could get you to stop the miscegenation with an emergency page.
he said you guys do it every morning.
so you weren't actually <U+0096>
i'm gonna need a definitive answer before any money changes hands.
thought you had an important meeting.
go talk to wilson about something completely unrelated and see what happens. mystery infection guy is now covered in boils and has an abscess big enough to put your fist in. he needs to get into an or tout suite.
good. i'll have some hot chocolate waiting. (house walks away)
if you really wanted to make a deal you should have ditched the push-up and gone with a demi. nothing makes a guy wanna close like high beams.
your meeting with the weasel lasted less than five minutes which means you either agreed to a completely sensible 30-day extension or one of you issued a completely ridiculous ultimatum.
(with a childish look on his face) oh goody. you or him?
way to go boss.
ridiculous to make fun to watch. as long as it's not just a bluff. please tell me it's not a bluff.
interesting.
it's not. it's not congestive heart failure. it's gotta be...
you ever noticed how many porn sites have mom in the domain name? hot moms hungry moms mature moms. that ought to make you feel pretty good.
looks like boils altered mental status and heart failure was caused by renal cell carcinoma. (handing her a form) i need your signature to start treating it with malaria. don't worry i'm giving him chemo too.
just trying to play my part cutting costs. malaria is the simplest cheapest method of delivering hypothermia.
that doesn't sound like me.
okay let me see if i've got this straight a bet that puts one patient at minor risk is juvenile?
but going all-in against atlanticnet <U+0096>
(putting the form on her desk) i'm gonna put this in your inbox. i just hope it doesn't get lost underneath all the other stuff you're carefully considering. (he leaves. cuddy sits down at her desk and looks at her watch yet again)
hey. (they talk as they walk toward cuddy's office) know any good transplant surgeons? turns out his kidneys aren't the only thing failing. and i know what you're thinking but malaria wouldn't destroy his liver that fast especially since we never infected him.
apparently foreman now thinks that he has the authority to overrule my orders just because the fda wouldn't approve. don't worry. i'll deal with him. if you could just talk to hourani <U+0096>
(turning to face her) if you paged me during sex?
it's all numbers. do the math and nothing else.
that's what they're supposed to do.
(they continue walking) putting your job on the line in an effort to stamp out stupidity isn't?
probably. but then i also wanted to try to cure cancer by infecting a guy with malaria to win a $50 bet. you really want to be like me?
would you rather i go back on vicodin?
she will... eventually.
its gonna take longer than a few days for a company the size of atlanticnet to start feeling the squeeze of your pr campaign. if they ever do.
i know they have a nascar team. despite what you may have learned at hebrew school or from jimmy cliff sometimes the bigger they are the harder they kick your ass.
i told them to use their words.
the breast milk guy finally found a doctor to give him what he wanted. if it works it's way better than malaria. it's worth a shot.
they're not gonna fire you. and you're not gonna quit.
because you're an idiot. (cuddy looks over at him) this place needs you. and that matters to you.
she's a sociopath.
no. but have you seen the way she opens the mail?
figured it might come in handy one day.
masturbating. i'd invite you but people are already talking.
right. playing dance dance revolution is a much better choice.
you can. but you can't get disc two with the director's commentary.
you mean you're dating on meth? count me in.
over a five-minute discussion of proust? speed dating's a meat market.
i thought i might do a little light doctoring in the afternoon.
platelets look normal.
what does she blog? politics? dominatrix? cooking? 'cause i need recipes.
and knowing too much about each other is exactly why people leave small towns and move to the city.
big red as for our tunics. connections are for airports. for people we have over 300 cable channels.
eeny meeny miny thirteen and tiny. [he goes back to his book.]
[to wilson] you brought a date?
and he has to swim in ours? you go to a bar you bring your ugly friends.
life is a beauty pageant. little girls who kiss frogs expect them to turn into you.
yeah you are.
the rest is your hair.
[smiling slightly] you wanna bet? [chase cocks his head listening] you can't tell anyone you're a doctor. you're unemployed. you're also a little slow misunderstand everything they say. and lose the accent. a hundred bucks says you still walk out of here with a dozen names.
i'm a diagnostician. i find out what's wrong with people and i fix it.
yeah but they can't dance like i can.
check.
quadruple check.
what are you here at gunpoint? you need me to call 911?
[noticing the daily crossword puzzle she has on the table.] you like puzzles.
[looking around] is there a fire alarm we could pull? maybe get out of here.
except... maybe you're just too swoft.
swoft. it's one of your crossword answers. i believe it means lying manipulator who tells men anything they want to hear. you brought a prop as a conversation starter. folded the paper to make it look read filled in some answers but you couldn't be bothered to work at it so you just put in random letters. you have some natural talent as a liar but not enough brains to see it through. i'm gonna assume you're not a cop. [leans back in his chair] are the five minutes up?
coagulopathy plus kidney equals what?
normal creatinine levels.
[shouting as wilson walks past] hey wilson! can't find my pornos.
i assume you moved them while you were dusting. i checked the drawers windowsill dvd player in your room. [leans back into the office stage whisper to the team] the quiet ones are always deeply repressed.
[following him] what? why did you return them to the store?
i'm not thanking you. i'm asking you why.
you do realize things don't have to be socks to go into a sock drawer.
you completely ruined my morning. i had to pull out your old family photos. [wilson turns back to look at him.] your mom was pretty hot. [back in the office] haff disease fits the timing best. start her on saline and mannitol.
nope.
too many. be like doing a whole body scan. send us up eight blind alleys. that's why chase is doing it.
she's never met me.
he was a fraud. she couldn't have gone with keyser soze? speaking of movies that don't make any sense i stopped at the rental store to get those pornos back. i told the guy at the counter i was so grateful that you'd returned them but i wanted them. guess what. you only returned two. you lost the third. it's decent of you to pay for it not let them put it on my bill.
i'm sure you could. but rather than listen to your lies i thought it'd be more fun to drive all over town and get another copy. [smiles smugly]
are you hyperventilating? remember that covering your mouth and one nostril can help.
he's not a director. he's an artist. the way he plays with light and darkness and [young wilson puts his arm around the girl] boobs.
be not afraid wilson. you took risks for your art.
from this moment on my lips are sealed.
[looking at the echo] her mitral valve is nearly gone. which means she's nearly gone. [looks at chase] god you're pretty.
book club. oprah was going on and on... [he grabs an almost empty half-gallon of milk from the refrigerator.]
patient wrote it. [he smells the milk.]
[finally serious.] it's an assignment from my therapist.
it's a book!
i'm all right. trust me.
i said trust me.
do you mind? i haven't finished it yet. [he takes the book and heads down the hall.]
read chapter six entitled shut the hell up.
chapter two bite me.
where'd you get all these copies? it's out of print.
you called him? what'd you say?
did you mention me?
sure. give up. let her die on schedule.
why was she sleeping? who can sleep in a hospital during the daytime?
is that what her blog says? she's a night owl?
in what tense? is? was? will have been?
[checking the blog on cuddy's computer] look at the time stamp on this post. 2:30 a.m. here's one at 4:00 a.m.
six months ago she's posting in the daytime. two years ago daytime. that's her natural rhythm.
which doesn't fit lymphoma.
we know she has the cell atypia that indicates lymphoma. biopsy her liver. [the team leaves. house turns to cuddy.] that was pretty cool what i did right? you wanna make out?
okay. so we add fever to cell atypia coagulopathy kidney heart liver...
there has to be something unique to this infection. something about its transmission and the way it manifests. there has to be something she's not telling us.
start her on broad-spectrum antibiotics. [they gape at him unbelieving.] since we know everything we might as well treat for everything.
if you're gonna be this way i'm not gonna invite you to my baptism.
natural selection is not an infallible force.
hi it's greg. you slept with my mother.
i was mildly curious. enough to read a book not enough to make a phone call.
[as wilson talks house has his epiphany.] crap. [he gets up and heads to the door.]
do you poop? [frankie looks at thirteen who looks at house.] come on. everybody poops. i read the book in medical school. sinkers or floaters?
greasy and soft or hard and pellet-like?
you just had to be so swoft. you're a hypocrite. no lies no secrets but everything stops at your colon. 4000 pages not one word about bms. and i bet yours don't smell at all.
readers don't. people who don't really care about you don't. but doctors might. the icky stuff changed right a few months ago?
a lot of people misunderstand how a vegetarian diet works. you take in less unusable material and your waste gets more efficient. harder and rounder. just look at the feces of rabbits. seriously. i think i might have some [he starts to look in his pocket.]
a g.i. infection causes malabsorption granulomatous buildup of cells. it's not contagious since no one around her got sick <U+0096>
[looking from one to the other] let's split the credit. start her on co-trimoxazole. [to frankie] we all need some secrets. as long as they don't kill us they keep us safe and warm.
can you write a book? so i can stop talking to you?
'cause i'm fascinated with how ministers think.
the power to transform into any water-based object?
underneath the god stuff... more god stuff.
get a table and i won't eat it on the couch.
but i won't have a good excuse.
not my condo.
then it would be a reflection of me not you. that wouldn't be right.
(pausing) you've never furnished a home.
no you've married a bunch of women who furnished a bunch of homes.
you're afraid.
you are what you sit in. your friends your job your furnishings <U+0097> it all defines you.
buy some furniture or admit that you're empty inside.
and there's no sign of trauma.
because if there was cuddy wouldn't have needed me to take the case.
foreman's the only one with the balls to take a case without checking with me and he's still working on breakfast. which means that the... (he takes up the patient file and puts it on his forehead as if he has the power of telepathy) 18... no 17-year-old honor student <U+0097>
so either you think that smart women look out for each other which means you're an idiot or you think cuddy's not smart which means... well i guess it's the same both ways.
picture fell out of the file. she looks smart. where's taub?
yeah he's at home in a fight with his wife. i'm just curious what he wanted me to know.
(reading the file) certainly not if you're an aussie. but when an american schoolgirl has two drinks before 10:00 am it's a pretty sure bet that the plan is to have a lot more. probably wasn't the first time she had that plan.
someone call taub. tell him to cut the ball and chain on his own time.
you think she's been eating your wife's cooking? hey i'm on your side man.
don't need to. face tells me you're bluffing. (taub looks at him questioningly) not yours <U+0097> chase's.
so come up with a better idea or have a crash cart ready.
and by we you mean you.
it's not my fault. i was busy trying to judge taub.
meaning?
it's not syphilis. vdrl and enzyme immunoassays were negative.
while she's on anticoagulants from the aortic surgery?
wouldn't cause the edema or dissection.
would you care to be a little more specific?
we hate full-body scans.
do the scan.
i think you work quickly.
nope. it's not bad at all.
if there was any sign of inflammation of the aorta that would make sense.
trust me. this is gonna help.
(to taub) your texting does not prove you're faithful. it just proves you know she thinks you're unfaithful. can't force trust. (turning back to the case) what did she hallucinate?
not usually.
we know nothing brain knows all. you get an ulcer you don't know it but the brain increases mucin secretions. it knows what the problem is knows where the problem is.
her subconscious is trying to tell her something. we need to eavesdrop.
we need the whole story. the cognitive pattern recognition program might tell us what's going on in her head.
fine. do the mra. when it comes back negative we can move on to the... crazy but possible ideas. (the team leaves)
i returned it.
but you didn't buy it. you rented it. you made one phone call to (reading from a business ad) economy furniture supply <U+0097> we get it done so you don't have to.
but no clue what any of it meant.
perfect. another woman to tell you who you are.
step inside one furniture store and find one thing you like.
one.
and the mra?
as predicted. what did we say we'd move on to?
which just leaves us with the question of what happened during the out-of-body experience?
sure. if you then went on to answer the following <U+0097> did she float above her body? did she see jesus? did she bathe in the ganges?
no.
coincidentally she could also have a stroke if we do nothing.
it's not magical. it's experimental. just like washing your hands after pooping once was. and technically it's not our best shot. i'm pretty sure it's our only shot.
perfect. so foreman go get her consent. the rest of you go down to the cog sci lab. equipment should already be there.
inspiration point doesn't open till after dark. got a real cool magic show about to start. also i'm gonna need to check your spare.
anyone ever tell you you can be a real buzzkill?
it's the sky. she's thinking about the moon and the stars and the sky.
who's that?
what did daddy die of?
she likes school and she has daddy issues <U+0097> neither of which helps us.
(still examining the model of the brain) not the aortic dissection.
so that's one imperfect theory plus a rare complication of a second theory which gives us a complete explanation. don't polish the notion foreman.
get a better look at her pineal gland with three tesla fast spin echo mri. (the team leaves to do the test)
which we would expect to see if there was an allergic reaction happening.
(angry because they have reached a dead end) how exactly do you want to be shot down? on the basis of the fact that she's never been within 6000 miles of the middle east or on the basis of the fact that all our scans and urine samples came back clean? (sighing) and yet she's still failing system after system. (sighing again) so either we find the answer at autopsy or...
i got nothin'.
are you having an affair? does it bother you that your wife doesn't have the guts to actually ask that question and i do?
difference is i'm not afraid of the answer. and i might believe you.
but you want to.
why? what you finally got to the point where half your age plus seven just isn't young enough?
or is it because you now really are old enough to be their <U+0097> (he pauses as the answer suddenly comes to him) the dad. does he travel for work?
not hers her boyfriend's. he's the one in her visions.
i'm your son's girlfriend's doctor.
it's a mouthful but probably not as tricky as your title.
do you travel a lot?
where'd you go?
i think you exposed her to a parasite.
because she doesn't have any.
it's cool. my theory is that her body was able to kill off the parasite but what it couldn't do was get rid of the shell which doesn't show up on the scans. that little piece of microscopic garbage set off an allergic reaction called cerebellar schistosomiasis delayed hypersensitivity allergy or cusdehaaa. risky unpleasant treatment but completely curable.
you'd think so wouldn't you? only thing is did you ever have sex with your son's girlfriend?
shut up! see i can't treat this unless i can confirm it and the only way she could have been exposed to this parasite is sexually which means she's gonna die very soon unless you admit that you slept with her.
(walking around behind artie so that he is now facing his son) gee this is bad because you now have to choose between her living and the truth becoming public. and frankly given what the truth is it's a tough call.
(to nick) your girlfriend is not allergic to your semen. she's allergic to the egyptian parasite swimming around in your dad's semen.
no need to explain. technically she was legal.
hey... all things considered it's actually great news.
you wussed out and used a decorator.
'cause it's not.
you have to. you can't keep letting other people define you.
not another elephant.
decorator didn't pick this.
(turning to look at wilson) i like what this says about you wilson.
what'd you tell him?
and he bought it?
your wife say yes?
monkey see monkey do. at least he has the young and stupid excuse.
(sincerely) good for you.
yeah yeah yeah gotta clear the <U+0097>
you're on two milligrams of morphine an hour. how the hell are you still awake? no don't tell me. [he takes the chart from the foot of the bed and glances at it.] ischemic cardiomyopathy. if the blood's not reaching your gut you have intestinal hypoperfusion. that'd be stronger than the narcotics.
she was being kind.
oh god don't tell me we used to date.
yeah well you should have kept reading. heart disease is kind of below my pay grade.
you talking with your mouth full? a little.
i take maybe 1 in 20 cases. a lot of the people i turn down end up dying. it's really a good argument for there being more than one me when you think about it.
no cards no flowers not even a phone call. let me guess. lighthouse keeper.
so your closest colleagues died 2000 years ago. that must be it. not that you have no friends because say you're a miserable bastard.
the next few hours are gonna be grim. there'll be nausea pain no company as soon as i can get myself out of here. i can unlock the regulator. you can put yourself in a narcotic haze sleep blissfully to the end.
win-win.
are you trying to guilt me for not taking your case?
you think odysseus would lie whimpering like a loser in a hospital bed? [getting up and approaching nash] come on take my offer. take the drug holiday. numb yourself out.
bad pain month.
i was in rehab. i had a little problem with the something of my own. now all i take is ibuprofen and it's two flights up.
the pain's migrated. i think the arterial wall is damaged.
i haven't had an arteriogram yet.
interesting... that you jump from physical pain to long-lost love. you're projecting. so what's her name?
what does it matter to you? it's t minus four hours. [nash looks at him. house checks his watch.] 8:20. now tell me who she is and what are the pathetically long odds that she's gonna visit or call. and why that's a reason not to take the morphine.
so this is what it comes down to in the final hours. deifying some lost love. hoping to get her on the phone and make everything perfect. it's pathetic. either you left her for a reason or she left you for a reason. [he turns and walks toward nash. he's holding the emesis basin that he was washing.] a phone call is not <U+0097>
so why isn't she here?
for sex or love?
and what time it is matters because?
same thing. pretty much.
i like being alone. at least i convince myself that i'm better off that way. and then i met someone at a psychiatric hospital of all places. she changed me. and then she left. we're better off alone. we suffer alone. we die alone. doesn't matter if you're a model husband or father of the year. tomorrow will be the same for you.
it's 9:00.
you don't seem that surprised. [nash looks away from him.] that's what you expected to get. you waited until you knew she'd be out.
none. just means you're a hypocrite. 'cause apparently you do. [he picks up the phone hits redial and hands nash the phone.] forget about rights. just tell her what you need to tell her.
yeah. i know. [to nash] i'm sorry i didn't take your case.
you're new.
(looking down at himself) and for the record a little bit cold.
(holding up a cereal box) without breakfast?
(holding out his hand) house. nice to meet you.
(setting the box on the counter and putting on the apron) so you and wilson...
sorry must have missed the if this trailer be a-rockin' sign out front.
(entering the room) huzzah my loyal peasants!
(holding the sword up in front of him) filling in for rabbi shmuhl at the goldstein bris. (he starts swinging and twirling the sword) while i'm busy you all can check out the knight down in the e.r. who instead of seizing the throne just seized.
doesn't work there he lives there as part of a wonderful little troupe who spend their weekends reenacting a nobler age when people crapped in the streets and thirteen would have been a grandmother.
try doing that with a pen.
better idea why don't you give me something i can use so i won't feel the need to?
you're forgetting to demonize.
no. two demon eyes. hemorrhaging in the sclerae.
which is why we need to check out middle-earth. foreman take frodo and break bread with the hobbits.
(to taub) that's why you and chase are gonna get an mri.
i said frodo not gollum.
who's the chick and why are you hiding her?
(putting down the sword and closing the door) and this morning. i bumped into your babe naked.
i was in the kitchen.
i was naked.
uh it's not important right now. what is is why you didn't want me to meet her in the first place. is she married?
a patient?
she used to be a man.
she wants to be a man. sam <U+0097> it's a man's name short for...
samantha. the soulless harpy you were married to before we met.
(lowering the sword) sure. they get older ovaries start drying up and nice guys like you look attractive again.
by this you mean a sinking feeling in the pit of the stomach. fine. i get it. it's your life. (he opens the door for wilson) you go screw it up. i can wait.
to tell you i told you so.
fun stuff never is.
except it's not food poisoning. if it was the e.r. would look like camelot right now.
no one else was sick because they weren't allergic like he was.
that's what i sent you to middle-earth to find out. (house tosses the cow eye to foreman) run scratch tests for the samples you brought back.
(testily) so treat him with epinephrine too.
(sitting on the nurse's station counter and rubbing his leg) unless he's allergic and allergic to the cure. sodium bisulfite <U+0097> the preservative that keeps epi peppy <U+0097> can cause tachycardia.
lord have mrsa.
i'm sure you'll be fine. (pointing to taub and chase) you two get a sample to the lab to confirm (to thirteen) you get the knight into isolation and on i.v. antibiotics. (to foreman) you... stay away from me. (he leaves quickly)
need to talk.
(sitting in a chair in front of the desk) mrsa shmrsa. something important.
wilson.
i don't believe it.
no that he's actually capable of keeping a secret from me.
(chuckling and leaning forward in the chair) would i? like <U+0097> like how you slept with your father's best friend or...
you need to break them up.
so you'd rather sit back and watch while the evil blonde gorges on wilson's tender flesh and then tosses out his bones like she did the last time? you remember what he was like after that?
well then do something. (leaning back in the chair) god knows he's not gonna listen to me. you on the other hand have decades of experience dating and being attracted to losers. obviously i don't include myself.
of course. i do it all the time. hmm i see your point.
(coming into the lab) hope they bought you dinner first.
i know it's poison ivy.
they have bonfires every night. the burning leaves aerosolizes the oil. we've seen what it's done to the outside of his body. imagine what it's doing to his lungs and his sinuses.
how about this? apparently it's all over his sword.
which is true of anything that would compromise his immune system which means it has to be some other environmental toxin. yesterday he was a healthy knight today he's sleeping beauty. nothing else fits.
then he ate the poison apple somewhere else. or maybe you just missed it. start treatment for trichinosis and confirm with a muscle biopsy. (he leaves)
told you so.
damn it. i never should have let her see me naked.
why?
you were.
so you're asking me to condone a relationship based on lies and mistrust.
when and where?
what am i gonna wear? all my cereal boxes are at the cleaners.
how could i say no? (he smiles and heads for the exit)
sorry we're late. but you know girls. always fiddling with the hair and the makeup. james sam.... this is sarah.
(correcting her) house.
(sarcastically) yeah delightful.
which one of you checked out the apartment?
his symptoms fit an environmental<U+0097>
search the apartment.
(interrupting and shouting at them as he walks away) go! now!
(holding up the toy soldier) plumbum nigrum.
our knight/warlock apparently also dabbles in alchemy.
biopsy the cysts and you'll find your lead.
wouldn't need a team if i did all the work now would i? plus i had to make you dinner.
i bet your plans don't taste like this.
i'm trying to be nice. what i did the other night was juvenile. i'm sorry.
(he pours more wine for each of them) it's my mom's recipe. everything else i got off the web.
where i found the lamb ragout and you two found each other... again.
and here we are.
i think you're old enough now. but if you would like me to come along with you...
yeah james i cook in peace.
you're a cold-hearted bitch who ripped his heart out. i watched him struggle for years to overcome the damage you did. and there's no way i'm going to just let you reel him back in so you can do it all over again.
phase two of getting to know my enemy.
same here. only difference is i'll outlast you.
end scene.
absolutely.
there's only one thing left to do.
actually i've already gotten good value.
no you told me that you couldn't find anything here that could be causing the symptoms.
do you think he's making a mistake?
wilson's not like us. he cares too much about people and their feelings.
the code that our knight claims to live by all that crap about honor and chivalry. wilson's naturally like that which is why he's<U+0097>
a sucker and a target. so we gotta look out for him. do you smell that?
(picking a bottle off a shelf) you know what this is?
try rose hips. (he puts it back)
it could be cyanide as far as he knows. (he picks up another bottle) how about this?
wrong again. black cohash.
(holding up a tuberous plant) you know what this is?
it's hemlock you embossed carbuncle.
did you sell it to anyone?
you sold it to sir william?
(he looks at thirteen) it's the only part of the environment you didn't check. the people living in it.
because you poisoned him. your royal anus. (he holds up the hemlock) with this.
hemlock. i need to know how much you used and how you prepared it.
the apothecary's willing to testify that you're the only one he gave it to.
if it was for the challenge then why is wee willie the only knight who's dying?
well the good news is we now know what's wrong with you. the bad news is that your king's precious ideals were just pretend after all. at least when it comes to guys who get too close to his queen.
i guess you've never heard the expression gas chromatography machines don't lie.
miles is a jealous idiot. and you're just an idiot.
well it's been in his system two days. we're lucky he's lasted this long.
it was just sitting in a stone.
anything good? and by good i of course mean bad.
(getting up from the chair) well there's gotta be something i can use.
but stealing them did.
careful. i have a sword.
i'm sorry is that the statutory period for soul sucking?
so prove it. and dump him... again.
sorry go on. and yes.
we did it. well i did it.
these aren't focal hepatic lesions on his liver they're peliosis hepatis lesions. which in combination with an erratic heart rate usually indicates<U+0097>
two major symptoms of anabolic steroid abuse.
our patient's a juicer. ancient poison accelerated the damage of the modern poison. start treatment; let the king out of the tower.
he's just trying to get into your skirts. and i don't mean metaphorically.
have a nice day.
i said i'd stay out of it. (he gives wilson a look).
nothing.
nope.
okay i may have seen something in the fridge. like the end of your relationship. (nodding to the fridge) she put the milk in the door and not on the shelf.
you hate that she did that but you didn't say anything. (wilson laughs)
no i'm trying to help. if you got an issue let her know.
fine. stew in your irritation. and sure last time it bubbled over into resentment and rage leading ultimately to a painful divorce that neither of you ever really recovered from but i'm sure this time it'll be great.
says the guy whose opposable thumbs have been all over how many women who aren't his wife?
boring. then we have to find a reason to rule it out.
but it would show up on a barium enema. (he drops the file on the table and grabs his cane)
barium coats the inner lining of your colon. lets us get a good look at it on the x-ray.
okay roll onto your side. it's fill 'er up time. so is evelyn his new squeeze?
must be interesting growing up in a production of oh! calcutta!
you can explain that she's the reason the two of you stayed married.
but you just don't want to be young together.
tank's full. i'll page the radiology elves.
absolutely. there's no need to find any underlying cause 'cause these things never happen twice. take her digestive system for a test drive. give her a radio-opaque milkshake. x-ray every 15 minutes to see if it makes any unscheduled stops on the way through.
no taub will be here all night. talk to the unicorn and then tell me you don't believe. (he puts his glasses on and grabs something to read).
that's not the lie. the lie is that he gives a crap about how his wife feels. if they're both screwing around that's one thing. but if she has a piece on the side and he doesn't the only way he'd be okay with that is if he's betraying her in some other way that in his mind makes them even. my unicorn isn't a unicorn. it's a donkey with a plunger stuck to its face. (he looks sad somehow.)
what i believe is that men are genetically engineered to be jealous. doesn't matter if i think there's a score. i guarantee you he does. any of the wife's partners pan out?
so we're back to the husband.
he's doing something behind her back. what better cover than a business trip to nebraska? like that's really a place.
and he nicked himself shaving. sorry. that was taub. but it was easier to solve. means he used the crappy razor in his locker which means he slept here.
on the medical front we've knocked out sex and foreign travel. could be an electrolyte imbalance.
figured it would either blow up your marriage or make it more honest. either way you win.
just because everybody in this room wishes that all women were horny all the time doesn't make it so. (chase looks amused.) get an mri of her adrenal glands.
clotting disorder would explain everything. (we hear the office door opening.) question is which one?
only the ones labeled n-s-f-w.
sorry that's n-n-s-f-w.
oh i'm long past the number of procedures that'll bankrupt them.
by we she means she. (thirteen sighs and stays).
wilson's been teaching me how to care. try me.
you're right. i don't care. (heavy rubber band shaking). clotting disorder: dic. factor five leiden antiphospholipid syndrome.
go test our patient's blood
 for everything we discussed. (thirteen leaves. house turns to wilson.) i'm sorry.
as long as you're free you want to grab some dinner? (wilson looks like he wants to strangle house but leaves anyway.)
which means we need to come up with a better idea. so what causes problems in the stomach heart nerves? (taub is waving pages of the file looking somewhat smug. house stops takes a deep breath gets his trademark epiphany look).
oh my god.
thank god someone's keeping us focused on what's really important. (he sits next to taub and watches him closely.)
imaging showed normal diameter in her pulmonary artery. here's a thought <U+0097> (they all pay attention.) taub's wife is now totally on the market. mind hitting me with her digits?
pain pain went away came back another day. question is what brought it back?
yeah he's right. let's get this wrapped up before 6. taub turns back into a faithful pumpkin at midnight.
pns also controls digestion which she's been doing without screaming her head off since she's been here.
foam?
nothing. that's the beauty. i genuinely tried to help wilson. i told him to stand up for himself which you know is legitimate advice. and his relationship blew up.
if this should somehow lead to lucas dying or oral sex so be it. (cuddy looks somewhat entertained.)
actually ibd does make sense 'cause it could trigger ankylosing spondylitis which would explain the heart and the kidneys. start her on sulfasalazine and tnf inhibitors. (they follow him in the corridor. house enters the elevator.) oh and taub i'm not gonna see you before you head off for gomorrah. just remember if you get disoriented breathe through your nose and look for the horizon.
why the lack of afterglow? physio girl not as freaky as you'd hoped?
seriously you'd think it'd kill her if we spend 15 seconds mocking you?
i don't care what it's not. i want to know what it could be.
good. treat for those three.
glad the husband's back. after missing so many little deaths he should be here for the big one. top six anyone?
we'd have seen some improvement on prednisone. (looking at flowers in the room.) guy's wife's dying and he stops to buy flowers.
those are lilacs. my mom used to grow lilacs. my dad made her get rid of them 'cause there were too many bees. we ruled out hsp 'cause there was no inciting respiratory infection. but in rare cases it can also be triggered by a bee sting.
maybe we just didn't see it.
have you been stung by a bee recently?
not that you know of. okay i'm gonna have to check your holes. i'll start with the mouth. if there's nothing there then things might have to get kinky. say aah. (he gets a light.)
i was kinda hoping for kinky.
that is adorable. other than you still wanting to have sex with other dudes and him bankrupting your family i think you kids are pretty much home free.
you two made up?
you can thank me later.
i met the neighbors.
good morning.
(checking his own message slips) that's nothing. i woke up in the wrong bed this morning.
(looking at jeffrey over the top of his sunglasses) that's not what your mama said. (snapping his fingers in the air) oh! snap.
he started it. it was the neighbor's kid's bed. luckily esteban still likes sleeping with mommy.
about yea drunk.
you sound just like esteban's mom.
sorry i'm busy.
(to chase) tell me you have a case. you know even if you don't.
sounds interesting. i'll take it. (they walk away from cuddy) i owe you one. now tell me you don't have a case.
we're even.
you guys know how to honeymoon. (he tosses his cane and then his backpack to chase)
aphasia is greek for loss of voice.
(looking at nicole) a lot of guys syncope at the altar. it's greek for having the vapors.
don't say ah.
(tossing the tongue depressor in the trash) roll on your side and lift up your gown.
there's one thing they didn't test for.
faking.
test was positive.
hey i'm not the one you have to convince.
well if she's buying that she might just be a keeper.
well the<U+0097> (house pretends to faint and collapses onto ted's bed)
is she buying this too?
(getting up off the bed) kryo podia. it's greek for duh. (taking his cane and backpack from chase) still you get to keep the engagement ring.
that's because you're more gullible than i am. (they stop at the elevator) for instance i don't believe that you called off your open marriage. i believe your wife called it off and you called off telling her that you weren't calling it off. a guy doesn't just throw a golden ticket in the trash.
that's exactly why you dabble. you're compensating for your professional conquests with sexual ones.
no thanks.
i did just very quickly.
okay. if you bring your wife.
you're lying.
then i'm not going.
there's gotta be a better way to call off a wedding. a tweet for example.
(turning around to look at the team) okay let's say all his symptoms are real. explain how one of them suddenly went away without using the words virgin or mary.
a medication he's not telling us about.
i don't even trust the er. let's rule out infections ourselves. tap his lungs send cultures run cytology for cancer and check his blood pressure.
this time talk about nuptials while you do it. check his home for everything else.
(to foreman) you check his love nest. (to taub and thirteen) you two check his swinging bachelor pad.
i assume so.
really? 'cause it would certainly explain the cold feet. oh and the boyfriend.
well it's possible. it doesn't mean you're gay just 'cause the guy you're sleeping with is.
so we got to wondering how does a 27-year-old get mono? you're a little old for the kissing disease unless your immune system is compromised.
okay. i'll go test your fiancee for hiv. is she the curious sort?
sodomy one of the top ten most common household accidents.
to zap the fabulous right out of him.
unless it was done at dr. liberace's he-man quackery camp. run an eeg. see if they straightened him or just scrambled him.
no need. i already texted her. and here she is now.
(leaning in close) i think you're still seeing the physio. (taub turns back to house) you've got a backup suit in your car. don't want to be bringing home da stank.
hi rachel.
(looking very pleased with himself) i'm just leaving. i've got a ceramics class.
i love it. even managed to talk chris into signing up for one. of course he's in the beginners' class.
friday nights right?
you should join chris'.
well gotta go. making a tea service. (he pats taub on the shoulder as he leaves)
four ways to stop a heart. (he walks toward taub) electrical problems restricted blood flow blood where it shouldn't be shocks blocks or bleeds.
(looking at taub) and cheating. (he guffaws) oh no. sorry. that's how you break a heart.
now you just have to find some pottery by taub. the lamer it looks the better.
you should be a doctor.
your life is awesome.
no you weren't.
because if you were you'd need to see the pain in her eyes so she could see the concern in yours. why are you setting me up on dates with my team? (wilson shakes his head) taub asking me out was quirky but thirteen doing it is a barking cat.
by setting me up with a hottie that i can't sleep with? and thirteen?
i don't need your help.
i gave him a dollar. how much did you have to pay?
racking you with guilt. so i do something really stupid and you reward me. read any parenting manual. that's not helping me. that's helping you.
okay.
for you.
it's not gonna work though.
p.o.t.s. - postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. bp plummets when he's upright reverts to normal when he's lying down.
so load him up with fludrocortisone.
(to taub) you didn't read your ceramics course description did you?
as i'm sure your wife did. so we all know they're doing a fourth of july theme. she'll be expecting something star-spangled.
so do i. should i call or raise with a double gutshot draw?
no. what about infection?
i was talking about you. has the little gent been wearing a tent?
a distracted person makes a distracted professional.
probably. do a spinal tap. run the csf. (taub starts to leave) still talking about you. (taub stops and turns back to house) but you can do it on the patient too if you want. (taub leaves)
(nodding) what about her?
she's the only one who's not here for fun.
if your gaydar is so great how come you didn't know about the patient till you met his boyfriend?
you don't think he loves her?
taub loves his wife but he needs to have sex with other women.
(finishing her sentence) to resist a biological imperative.
says someone who's obviously never been on a diet.
you're successful smart and you attract everything that moves. if you want to focus on the fact that you're not gonna see 50 that's your choice.
(answering the phone) yeah?
we were just talking about you.
(into the phone) not quite. you did a spinal tap but the headaches got worse.
he sprung a leak. he's losing csf from the tap site.
just you actually.
the low pressure in his brain caused the p.o.t.s. not the other way around. patch the leak and top him up with artificial csf. (he closes his phone)
so what's masquerading as a stroke? voted the worst halloween costume by the way.
chest x-rays showed no hilar masses. (to taub) any luck with the pottery?
skin's fine. a.n.a. was negative. so what did that set you back?
eia was clear. hey could have gone a lot higher than $215.
nillas. no. idiot. lactate. levels. are. stable. we're missing something.
if history is written by the victor how do we find out what really happened?
call the boyfriend. let's get them all in the same room.
or we could get them all in the same room and get the truth.
can't. pap smear.
it's gonna suck.
where and when?
the night just keeps getting better.
to wilson.
if he can't tell his fiancee he's gay how is he gonna tell her he's pregnant?
nope. tsh was normal.
check his prolactin level then mri his pituitary.
you believe chase?
i realized that they could be my friends.
and then i sobered up.
i think i sleep better in rocket ship sheets.
and wisdom is knowing the difference between what you can change... (house pauses and reaches for his cane. this is the medical epiphany moment) and what you were born with.
(finishing taub's sentence) was normal.
how are the headaches?
give me your head.
i know. it's the first time you've heard that sentence with a possessive pronoun.
how cool is that? you have a chiari malformation a narrowing in the base of your skull that can cut off csf flow. but it wasn't a problem until the ect at breeder boot camp caused your brain to swell just enough to plug the opening. and when your brain pressed up against your pituitary it signed you up for la leche league. you still won't be pitching a tent for your lady but that's just because you know she's a lady.
it also does an uncanny christopher walken. unfortunately if you treat it like p.o.t.s. it gets worse. so as far as that goes oops.
overbearing mother. kidding. cm's congenital. like so many other things you were born that way.
it's friday night.
frees you up for the next one.
(taking the box) for trying to wreck your marriage?
and i get napkin rings?
good work.
he doesn't have a home.
so wilson got to you too?
lucas?
i'm not that hungry.
(very seriously) funny. that's the last thing i want us to be.
okay. therafy me.
you're fat.
you know how far the parking lot is? my leg's been hurting.
no. probably just gonna rain. [he grips his right thigh and looks off to his right avoiding nolan's gaze.]
i was late. i wasn't focusing on the decor but it sounds appropriately bland and calming.
i'm not stressed beyond the stress induced by you telling me how stressed i am.
i had a patient.
[removing his sunglasses] beer?
we know she has money. [he picks up a sneaker.] blaze outriggers <U+0097> 400 bucks a pair. people who have money don't just disappear. sooner or later someone's gonna show up looking for her.
you don't eat because you remember it's time to eat. you eat 'cause you're hungry. [he pulls the blanket off her legs and feels her calves.] her metabolism is in high gear. she is an extreme long-distance runner<U+0097>
[still looking at the patient] that's your question? [back in nolan's office nolan nods] you're a psychotherapist. you're hearing about a great amnesia case and all you're asking me is geography.
[defiant for a moment then he drops his eyes] i was avoiding wilson. it's not something you couldn't have seen eight miles away.
[voice over] wilson's a processor. i knew there were some things that he'd want to process with me at length.
if it's before friday your assistant wins the pool. [he takes a bite of his muffin.]
tonight?
but she wants me to move out.
by moving too quickly. given your usual rate of commitment i'm surprised you're not already re-divorced.
what's wrong with my old place?
[nodding] where i didn't abuse drugs and hallucinate.
i'm fine.
why wouldn't i be?
he couldn't foresee sam coming back into his life.
based on what?
those aren't symptoms.
case was interesting.
[slight smile] or not.
here. loss of differentiation between gray and white matter. [he points to an area on the scan.]
fine. i'll give you the cliff notes version. chase <U+0096> ms taub <U+0096> physical trauma. i can tell you why we ruled them out.
her heart rate monitor has a serial number. the distributor can match the number to the store that sold it. she's a serious athlete. she might have been there often enough to be remembered.
subtextually.
even if the store clerk doesn't know who she is the store's probably close to where she lives. just seeing those surroundings might spark a memory.
no. i'll take her.
patients are boring as people. this one i'm sure was no exception but her situation was interesting. besides i was still avoiding wilson. and no better way to avoid than leaving the hospital.
i wasn't avoiding going home. i'd already gone home
[voice over] before i came into work that day. i went straight there from wilson's.
not exactly.
why are you here?
yeah thanks for the safety lesson. why are you here?
and turn his apartment into a giant prison jumpsuit.
my stuff?
coffee table <U+0097> where'd you put it? in the bedroom?
you sold my table to pay for paint that i don't want?
get out.
look i'm going to work now. and when i come back the walls will be a less exciting color and you will be gone. [he drops a duffle bag on the floor with a thud.]
unlike me alvie didn't leave. i took my motorcycle to work that day. when i went home to get my car he was painting the ceiling magenta. so i brought him with me to protect the apartment.
to protect the apartment. whoa. deja vu.
obviously because he's a wilson substitute. you can barely tell the difference between them especially when wilson raps about the hood.
from what?
shut up alvie. anything familiar church grocery store?
you know that puerto ricans are u.s. citizens right? instead of working the case why don't you contemplate the inanity of an american with american immigration issues?
so get a new one.
there's only one copy?
how'd that go?
then someone will show up <U+0097> a spouse a friend <U+0097> to tell you who you really are and what you should be feeling. they always do.
what did they say at the hearing?
your mother is puerto rican therefore you are puerto rican. all you got to do is prove your mom's your mom find some documentation<U+0097>
alvie the hearing<U+0097>
we're not here<U+0097> [voice over] and then i realized [to alvie] you make a good point.
your old friend the fried carbohydrate. [to the cashier] she needed the calorically dense food to support the running habit. do you know her name?
do you know where they live?
here work anywhere she could have been exposed. why wasn't princeton plainsboro on your list?
do you have any idea what would sound like you?
[voice over] that it was a strange position to be in. at that moment she was more comfortable with me than with her husband. and he was picking up on it.
what about me how?
those are my two choices? none of the above. she was just a patient. she was interesting.
toxic exposure to methane could explain this.
we'll take her back to the hospital test her blood and urine and start treatment.
what happened?
urinary incontinence. [he checks sidney's eyes.] she's having complex partial seizures. this isn't methane. and you can leave the bucket. we need to get her to<U+0097>
i'm choosing my diagnoses based on personal issues? you think she fell down the stairs and peed her pants 'cause wilson dumped her too?
chase had the toxin idea. maybe he's obsessed with my past.
which is also not a toxin.
not only am i unthreatened by it i was trying to get it back.
there's a ding mark.
sure the<U+0096>the cup marks and the scuffs and the paint and those three chips. this fourth one's new.
you said you pawned five books. there's only four.
where's approach to the acute abdomen?
to?
how much for the pile?
[stunned] you said it was junk.
unlike the rest of humanity who's okay when their belongings are taken. everyone wants their stuff. that's why it's their stuff.
i like my stuff. i hate it when wilson moves it<U+0097>
this is not about wilson! [he slams his fist on the table causing the carafe and glasses to jump. nolan tilts his head and looks at house. house sits for a minute then taps on the table breaking his mood.] say it.
31 31! hike!
one more you get a touchdown.
hike!
and hike!
because i thought you were a smart guy who didn't need the obvious spelled out to him. wilson noticed that i didn't come to my office all day. he came to find me wanted to make sure i'm okay <U+0097> boring boring boring.
you okay?
that's very sad alvie. listen i set up an immigration hearing.
i cared for eight seconds. then i got distracted.
yeah.
try a strobe light add more stress.
seems she had a wake-up call while she was at college. her brother died in a car accident. she decided to make her life mean something. went to law school. now that's all gone.
yeah. i knew the psychological aspects of this case would interest you. bet you got a theory already. what is it?
[deliberately] what is it?
i think he just bores her. she's at an earlier stage of development. she's looking at her grown-up future and it puts her to sleep.
he almost did lose his wife.
[pointing to the image on the monitor] hypothalamus here hence the d.i. and incontinence. the amygdala here hence the global amnesia. and the motor cortex <U+0097>that's the foot paralysis. what do they all have in common?
it ends with a diagnosis of spongiform encephalitis. i convinced the team to cut out part of this woman's brain. that's not interesting to you?
not even if it's the amygdala? she'll lose all her long-term memory.
[rubbing at his scalp with his fingertips as if he's washing his hair] aren't therapists supposed to be nurturing?
are you charging me for this time?
this is ridiculous.
it's just a bruise. and i fell.
no. i was drunk hence the balance issues. [he reaches for his jacket.]
i said something that someone objected to.
it's usually the way it is when someone hits me. people who kick when you're down are jerks but they're generally not irrational jerks.
i don't know.
[puzzled] what?
[thinks then shakes his head. speaks quietly] i don't know. [long pause] okay there may be a problem.
what prompted this?
[grabbing the address] god's sake wilson. you really span the chasm from wishy to washy. if you're gonna be an ass be an ass. stick with it.
come on. cuddy played on his guilt. she put him up to this.
two reasons <U+0097> first he wants to create the perfect environment to be with sam. he's been thinking about asking me to leave for a while. finally he does it and immediately turns around and changes his mind? no. he talked to somebody.
[voice over] yeah that's a possibility.
because they've been talking about me. she called me to check on the patient which she never does without a reason. i asked why and she said
right now the patient's lucky if she can spell jurisprudence.
touching base. wilson used exactly the same phrase. colluding about me is their favorite pastime.
yeah he is.
your version needed to be ended 'cause it's crap. it's all sweetness and light and faith that i'm gonna choose the right path. yeah that sounds like wilson.
and i know that he and cuddy have gone behind my back before to strategize about the house problem.
wilson is not a consolation prize.
[glowering] he's my friend.
[thinks] i can say whatever i want to him and he'll never leave.
for now. after the divorce he'll probably ask me to move in again. i take the long view.
are you kidding? that's the kind of remark that leads people to hit you.
you say that now that i finally agree with you? do you just argue the opposite of whatever i say?
[thinking] i told you i don't know.
well yeah. that's why i called it an ordinary week.
without the surgery she'll lose everything. the prion infection will continue to advance and destroy her whole brain.
well you can stop arguing 'cause it doesn't matter anymore. look at the variability in the heart rate. the s.e. has spread into the brain stem.
this thing's moving too quickly. surgery's no longer an option which i guess means you've won. congratulations. [to taub] put in a pacer and start her on chemo and radiation. it won't cure her but it'll buy a couple weeks so she can find out who she is before she dies.
husband was being an idiot.
he'd rather risk his wife's life than their marriage. people's brains stop working when they think they're gonna lose someone they love.
it's all right.
50 bucks for the book.
you paid $25. that's 100% return.
$2000. i'll write you a check.
anyone see you?
it's very very tiny.
brain heart and rapidly progressing.
[voice over] or allows an old infection to reactivate it <U+0097> tb. [cut to courtroom] start her on a multidrug regimen.
give her the first dose directly into the lungs in the o.r.
put her in an isolation room with u.v. light. and get yourselves tested. you've all been exposed.
i am mr. alvarez's doctor. [he hands her a sheet of paper which she unfolds and reads.]
it could be.
i'm better at it than you are.
wait wait.
there's something on her ankle. [he touches her leg]
she tried to get it removed but they only took off the top layers of skin. the ink is still in the deeper layers. [cut to nolan's office] set off an allergic reaction. she was fine until she started the long-distance running. the ultra-marathoning modified her immune system set off the allergic reaction. we did a full thickness skin graft and she'll be okay.
[voice over] not yet.
no way to know.
taub thought it might<U+0097>
not exactly.
alvie?
[putting the note down] alvie was very grateful that i'd gotten him out of trouble. it allowed him to go stay with his cousin in phoenix without worrying about immigration looking for him there.
no.
[voice over] nothing happened next.
that's all i got.
bergman. [shrugs] what do you want me to say?
they're happy. why should i screw that up? everyone's happy. everyone's moving in together <U+0097> wilson and sam cuddy and lucas. even alvie's<U+0097>
they talked about moving in together before. it's not big news.
her great-grandfather. i've had it for years always meant to give it to her for a special occasion.
it's just a gift.
i'm not gonna go out and get hammered because a woman i'm not even with is moving in with someone. that'd be pathetic. to hell with this. when i first came to you i told you that i wanted to be happy and i followed your advice. and instead i'm just miserable. how is this working for me?
for a year i've done everything you've asked and everybody else is happy. i run on my treadmill. you just sit there and watch. you're a faith healer. you take advantage of people who want to believe. but there's nothing in your bag of tricks.
whatever the answer is you don't have it.
(looking down and sideways but not at cuddy) don't care.
no it's just a book he wrote. open it up.
it's a big step you're taking. i wanted to congratulate you. i understand that's the adult thing to do.
i've known for a while. the fact that you decided to cohabitate is not exactly a spoiler. unless my intel is wrong.
trouble in paradise?
(shining a light into the eyes of a young woman with blood running down her face) can you hear me?
(to cuddy) that sound like a yes?
(to the worker recording the decisions of the triage doctors) skull fracture. glasgow coma score of 11. she's immediate.
move on. this guy's dead.
(pulling off his latex gloves) forget the wound. look at his toes. atherosclerotic emboli. he'll never survive the surgery.
it's not the shoes. skin shows smoker's facies. he's not gonna make it till morning. he'll just take up an ambulance ride surgeon's time and an icu bed.
(to jay) tell me when something hurts.
something other than your conscience. is that a pill in your pocket or are you just happy to have a tiny pill-shaped penis?
caffeine pills. you fell asleep taking these?
is that normal for you?
(to foreman) this much caffeine for a coffee virgin. there's no way he fell asleep. he passed out. which means a neurological disorder caused the crash not fatigue. (yelling to cuddy) hey. we're taking the crane operator back to princeton.
(to foreman) steal an ambulance. and call the team. tell 'em we got a case.
well he needs me there. and he moans louder than you do.
lots! every time cuddy leans over a patient it's another opportunity for a down blouse nip slip. what's going on between her and lucas?
i gave her the housewarming gift earlier. and she paused for a split second like she was hiding something.
or maybe she didn't want to accept a gift for something she wasn't gonna do.
(reaching into the machine and pulling out a drink) yeah. vending machine collapsed.
she still using your ex-wife as a realtor?
well know a little farther will you? look into it.
hey! there's somebody down here!
(who has acquired a flashlight) i heard something <U+0097> there's gotta be a void down there.
there's smashed cars down there. the gasoline throw off their scent?
anybody hear me? hey! anybody hear me?
aah! oh...
(brushing her free of debris) what's your name?
well you should have told me earlier. i could have picked it up on the way. what's your name?
i'm not asking your name because i wanna become friends. i'm trying to gauge your mental state.
okay that's a start. what day of the week is it?
better still.
you know that giant construction crane next door? it's kind of on top of you right now. okay i'm gonna try to pull you out.
okay okay.
whew i'm gonna need to get help.
no one knows i'm down here.
i'll be right back.
perfect! let's start right now. put me on speaker. (shouting to be heard over the noise of the saw) what causes syncope?
who don't need to be diagnosed. they just need to be bandaged. what causes syncope?
how's he gonna sleep with 50 cups of coffee going through his veins?
i hear ten eleven and twelve. where's thirteen?
do you have the answer to my question after that? space-occupying lesion in his brain is most likely. mri will prove i'm right.
which we'd wanna find anyway. two birds with one scan. do it.
she getting weaker? paler?
that means her blood loss in minimal. buys us some time. get the iv into her tibia. it's almost hollow feeds into the venous system. (the emt stares at him blankly) which they obviously don't teach you in emt school.
told ya i'd be back.
(unzipping the medical kit) heard you might be thirsty.
(to the captain) i assume that bodes well for the rescue?
you testing my mental state?
look the guy who just left is the one who's gonna be holding your hand through all this. you talk to him.
little pinch.
okay. big pinch.
uh no bars down here. l'chaim.
don't worry. fire marshal bill will be back soon.
so i hope i didn't weird you out giving you that gift.
of course. (he pauses briefly) is now later? maybe things aren't going so well with lucas. if so i'm sorry. i didn't mean to step into anything.
so why the weirdness?
no wonder you wanna hide this from me... since i'm such a delicate flower.
that might make sense 'cept you're not wearing the ring. (the camera cuts back to a closeup shot) so...you are hiding it which begs the question<U+0097>
(interrupting) we are not cutting off her leg. (to hanna) you don't have to rush through this to make his job easier. (he motions toward the captain)
so could cheeseburgers. (to captain mccreaney) let's get your lazy friends to start moving that pile. she's got two more hours before crush syndrome could possibly set in.
you think chopping off someone's limb inside a pile of dirty rocks is safe? sepsis fat embolism a hemorrhage.
house. you don't need to thank me. it just makes sense.
(crossing his fingers) i promise. does that make you feel better?
(flipping open his phone) switched carriers. better rollover minutes. (into the phone) talk.
so there was something wrong before the collapse.
yeah yeah yeah <U+0097> you don't think he was sick before. we get it! you're wrong.
(to thirteen) where were you?
good theory. except for the part that there's no fever. get an x-ray venogram. see if you can find a reason for your existence. also look for venous sinus thrombosis.
not if you were too busy not looking for it.
just do what i tell you. be back in ten minutes. (he disconnects the call)
there's a dozen people here who can save you. i'm apparently the only one who can save this other guy.
(zipping up his jacket) so calm her down.
i'm flattered. give her oxygen. (he starts up the bike engine)
not at all. i just realized how... big and scary the world is and how cozy and safe this little place is. (he takes off his leather jacket)
here. call your husband.
see? this is why i lied about the phone. your bp is spiking so you're bleeding faster from your leg wound. i'm gonna have less time to save it. hang up.
that was stupid of me.
i don't see that as a contradiction.
what did i tell you about not raising your blood pressure?
crane fell on it. (hanna laughs) small world.
i'll remember that for my next human contact.
no. i'm not in the habit of encouraging my patients' superstitions.
i don't believe in god.
i didn't use to. then recently i tried... now i don't know.
yeah. we'll catch a ball game or... group sex show or something.
okay now when the beam starts lifting you're gonna feel pain. it's gonna be like your foot's gone to sleep times a billion. you'll notice that i'm waiting till now to tell you.
that's good. that means the pressure's coming off. much closer to getting out of here.
come on. pull her out.
come on!
hanna! hanna! what the hell happened?
one two three<U+0097>
kit. gimme the kit.
no breath sounds on the left side. tension pneumothorax. okay hanna.
(holding hanna's hand for a second) i'm gonna have to go.
you know who's even luckier? you and just about every other human being (his cell phone rings) who wasn't down there.
(answering the phone) what did the venogram say?
that's 'cause everything's sore. he just took a 15-story swan dive into concrete. do an lp.
so you're suggesting we do an lp.
genius.
no.
crush syndrome is basically a buildup of potassium. if we remove potassium<U+0097>
but not with glucose and insulin. we have glucose in the kit. there's gotta be a diabetic here somewhere.
(still rubbing his leg) really? 'cause i think i'm the only one here who knows what a leg is worth. and fortunately you're not the one in charge <U+0097> he is. and he knows that i'd testify against him if hanna sues for cutting off a leg without exhausting every option.
really? (standing up and towering over her) wow. so this is all about you now.
yeah. that must be it. it's not that you're a pathetic narcissist.
that's great. a life lesson from a middle-age single mom who's dating a man-child.
(calling after her) fantastic. just stay away from my patient.
hanna... we have to amputate your leg. (cuddy looks up at him surprised)
there was. and it's run out.
you asked me how i'd hurt my leg. i had a blood clot and the muscle was dying. and i had all these doctors telling me i should amputate and i said no and they did this... very risky operation. i almost died.
i wish i hadn't.
they cut out a chunk of muscle about the size of my fist and they left me with this mutilated useless thing. i'm in pain... every day. it changed me. made me a harder person a worse person. and now... now i'm alone. you don't want to be like me. you've got a husband who loves you. you have friends. you can start a family. you have a life. and this... this is just a leg.
i got it. (he picks up the amputation kit taking responsibility for the amputation upon himself)
i can't put you out. it could depress your respiration too much. this should take away some of the pain. (he pushes a drug into her iv)
i'll use a scalpel to slice through the skin muscle and fat. that should go pretty fast. then i'll switch over to the electric saw when i get to the bone. it's two bones... about as thick as a broomstick. takes about as long to get through. i'm gonna cut as close to the concrete as i can save as much of your limb as possible. then the orthopedic surgeons back at the hospital will clean you up have you fitted for a prosthetic. you'll be running circles around me in no time.
like nothing you've ever felt before.
(into the phone) what?
what are his vitals?
what do you mean officer? how long has there been a cop there?
was anything else making him nervous or worried before his other symptoms?
was his bp spiking?
yeah it did. all the caffeine. we thought the problem was in his toilet <U+0097> by that of course i mean his head. which distracted us from the fact that it could have been just a clog in his sewer pipe and by that of course i mean his spinal cord. and blah blah blah blah. you get the idea.
run a ct<U+0097>
breath sounds bilaterally. it's not another pneumothorax. (he puts his hands on both sides of her neck and turns her head from side to side) neck vein's flat. there's no tamponade. (to himself) damn it i went in too high. (to hanna) hanna you've got a clot in your lung. i'm gonna fix this. (to the emt) iv streptokinase.
her body won't get any oxygen unless we can bust the clot. this is a blood thinner.
it's gonna make her bleed more. we'll take care of that next.
it's not busting the clot.
it's not a clot. it's a fat embolism. from the amputation.
(turning toward foreman and shouting) that's the point! i did everything right. she died anyway. why the hell do you think that would make me feel any better?
(standing up and sounding menacing) i'm gonna give you a task as an employee. get out of my way.
(inhaling) you going to leap across the room and grab them out of my hand?
okay. just so you know i'm finding it hard to see the downside.
is that why you're here? foreman sent you?
you here to yell at me again?
well i'm running out of ideas.
oh great. you're feeling uncomfortable again. probably means you just got back from some quickie wedding in vegas or you're already pregnant.
(shocked) what?
you think i can fix myself?
'cause i'm the most screwed-up person in the world.
how do i know i'm not hallucinating?
nope.
(also smiling sweetly yes sweetly) yeah.
