manipulative.
(shortly) get out of here.
so. what's the big move?
because you've been chugging milk of magnesia for the past hour. you got a lot going in and nothing coming out.
get the bugs off. (louder) get the bugs off him!
he's choking.
who's not the doctor?
who the hell isn't a doctor?
he meant we can't talk about the case.
you're not curious? there's only one reason you wouldn't be curious.
we need to know if it's dysphagia or full-blown achalasia.
how would a neoplastic growth in his abdomen...
we were trying to save a man's life.
what contrast did you use for the ct?
his kidneys aren't working. they didn't filter the contrast which in icm is green.
think his nihilism got the best of him and he tried to kill himself?
[pointing at the phone] was that always there?
[whispers to kutner] why does he get to be bosley?
[whispers to kutner] bosley keeps his job while they replace five angels over three seasons.
not with a normal ct scan.
funeral home prep rooms are filled with toxic chemicals.
[suddenly] i have a question. is he the one who's not a doctor?
[interrupts] you said one of us wasn't a doctor and you called him a fraud.
[interrupts again] why isn't he fired?
once the valium kicks in you'll feel better.
let's wait just a bit see how it goes.
[complaining] i guess father time's a lock for one of the spots.
he doesn't have a medical license and he's still around.
he doesn't care about our qualifications or ideas. he just wants to have fun.
this game is insane.
[sighs] if it's gonna be on your r<e9>sum<e9> it's gotta be better to quit than get fired.
actually with house getting fired might look better.
i am not digging up a body without a court order.
where's the single mom?
not me.
i'm a surgeon. if anything happens to these hands i'm screwed. let bosley do it. as long as he can keep folding laundry his career won't...
[whispering] shouldn't we be running?
where the hell have you been?
why me?
and you can't ask bosley because that'd look like you only hired the non-doctor to do non-doctor stuff.
we did a full history. she never mentioned seeing or hearing anything unusual.
uh carbon monoxide could also cause delusions. a lot of haunted houses report...
there are at least forty different mitochondrial disorders another couple hundred...
[to dobson] what the hell does that mean? you guys talking your own language now?
mri didn't indicate any cerebral ischemia.
yes those are her big mystery symptoms. not the hallucinations that vasculitis doesn't explain.
house this guy may be smart and i'm sure he's great to share a beer with. but if he doesn't know that visual symptoms are an electrical issue not vascular; two separate systems...
acute intermittent porphyria's a better fit.
[protesting] house...
enlarged spleen and liver failure are classic aip. it's porphyria and it's moving fast.
[arguing] pbg tests are only conclusive if done during an attack which you would know if you were a real doctor.
which one of us is?
[pressing his temples in frustration] vasculitis is off the board. steroid treatment didn't help.
[stands and approaches house] this is a joke right? he can't be right every single time. you're feeding him your ideas just to embarrass us.
you agreed with everything he said. you finished each other's sentences.
uh what about a spinal cord lesion?
no laryngeal spasm.
ultrasound his abdomen look for an abscess.
infections can hide deep beneath the skin. this will find them.
dr. volakis.
[smiles looks at the screen then back at the patient.] wait. you saying that... you... i want--her?
i'm married.
even if i wasn't she's a little too uh... aggressive for me.
[smiles.] yeah true. [patient laughs and gives taub a high five. taub sees something on the screen.] i'm done.
yeah. we've got to run some more tests. you can clean yourself up. [hands him a cloth.]
where's foreman? we should...
you risking our patient's life to get back at cuddy?
there are a thousand microbes it could be.
didn't we just rule out that possibility?
you seem like a good guy cuddy seems decent. house... doesn't. it means either you're going to give in or cuddy is. either way... i'm sorry. [leaves.]
get him out of the water.
not yet!
wait.
[feeling the patient for a pulse.] it worked.
cardiac arrest. we were able to shock him back to a normal sinus rhythm and kutner nearly into a coma.
it wasn't a compliment.
until they find his car we have to assume he's travelled to ohio california central america and possibly weehawken.
so which one of us sucks the most?
female college student with...
cop?
that's even slower than ms. it's lupus.
[to amber] flirt all you want but i should warn you - shiksas are for practice.
i could hook you up.
we obviously don't know what it is. treat for both.
yeah.
you're an immunologist. we wanted to confirm...
he's pushing ms. thinks that because he's in charge he has to prove he's the smartest guy in the room.
i know. i'm talking about how to deal with foreman.
trying to figure out which treatment's working. it's kind of tacky doing it in front of the patient.
steroids don't cause paralysis.
she thought lupus was...
given its quick progression we gotta assume botulism.
brilliant. we should search her home for fdr's remains or a time machine.
yeah. every death's a tragedy. funny how you weren't so depressed when she was just dying because me and amber screwed up.
uh where have you been the last two days?
hundred and fifty grams over six hours. it worked.
foreman.
(suspicious) why are you glad foreman's not here?
simple. his big head. increased intracranial pressure would cause heart block.
discoloration could be acanthosis nigricans. it's a common side effect of these deformities.
mr. arnold dr. house is like a savant when it comes (glances quickly at the camera) to diagnostics.
maybe a way to look at this is that you are normal. (nods)
you're like any other parent... who thinks his kid can't be doing drugs.
it wasn't drugs.
could be toxoplasmosis. we should do an lp to test for infection.
because it is intracranial pressure.
just let me do a ct scan see if i'm right. the sooner we fix the problem the sooner we can get to his reconstructive surgery.
the one thing we're know it's not.
ep study means we have to stop this kid's heart.
i'm gonna thread this catheter through different areas in your heart. and once i've found the right pathway i'll apply some electrical energy.
sounds worse than it is. you'll be fine.
there'll be some discomfort. (beat) if you've done drugs i understand. being different's really hard.
kenny. uhm it's more important for you to get better than to worry about getting in trouble.
it could.
that's why we're here.
you okay? (the coughing eases) i need to know what kind of drugs kenny... and how much.
those are the same thing.
you don't do drugs do you?
we're not going to do this test.
i need you to turn on your side.
we need to intubate. (louder) i need some help in here!
ah... could be dangerous. if the bleeding was caused by liver failure as a result of the intracranial pressure....
true. [taub walks off.]
(muttering) intracranial pressure can cause liver problems. it causes an increase in the cavernous sinus pressure which causes pressure in the superior vena cava which shuts down the liver.
no.
think he'd change his mind? not a chance.
house would have undercut me forced me to do a procedure i'd just argued against...
...and then i'd look like a hypocrite in front of the thousands of people and potential future employers watching this film.
i know.
(oozing sincerity) nope. you're in good hands.
(interrupting) the laparoscope caused variceal bleeding. took twenty minutes of banding to stop it.
his cranio-facial deformity is causing intracranial pressure which is cau...
no. it's icp. you're only going to see swelling.
i'll take care of it.
maybe we should try this the old-fashioned way (waves a ophthalmoscope back and forth) hmmm?
'k.... look up at the ceiling. and try not to blink okay?
ok good. now straight ahead.
there it is. swelling. no degeneration.
(voiceover) it's not mitochondrial. swelling proves...
... there's increased pressure in his brain.
so now we can reschedule the reconstruction.
your test proved you wrong. we found exactly what i predicted we'd find.
too much acetaminophen does.
if you're wrong...
...steroids are going to mess with his immune system...
...put off his surgery for months.
i'll speak to the father.
dr. house believes that kenny has jra - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. and we need to start administering steroids.
i don't think he has jra.
i think dr. house is wrong and that the steroid treatment could be dangerous.(pause) i think i can get house thrown off the case and get kenny the facial surgery he needs.
the decision was his. i merely voiced my concern.
he's got a bulging cyst...
...fluids aren't draining properly...
he needs surgery.
coup failed. i'm scheduled for execution at dawn.
no reprieve from the governor.
i look at our patient as soon as i saw his face i saw a regular kid.
one thing about being a plastic surgeon - you don't see what is you see what could be.
ct shows...
defect is pushing on the right frontal lobe. this bend is a sign of herniation.
(half-pleading half- warning) house.
you son-of-a-bitch. you spoke to my wife?
you say anything to her?
(snaps) we're doctors.
i screwed around with a nurse. it became a deal. my partners found out... and i resigned. (quietly bitter) there. happy?
some people pop pain pills. i cheat. we all have our vices.
there's a masked lesion in the left anterior temporal lobe surrounded by edema.
dr. house. please. will you just take a look at this?
the defect is causing this nodular shadow here. you see?
okay. you were right.
i'm thrilled i'm wrong. this is great kenny. you're gonna get your surgery now.
what?
no... it's not.
and?
kid's about to have a life-changing operation. he's nervous.
why can't you just accept the fact you cured this kid?
(accusing) you want to stop his surgery! you're not normal.
so you don't want anybody else to be normal. you don't think normal's healthy.
fine. let's test your theory. remove his pacing wire. if he's better his heart'll beat just fine on its own and then he can have his operation.
(voiceover) there'll be some minor discomfort...
...and you'll feel a slow steady pulling sensation.
(confidently) we're not going to need those.
here we go.
heart rate's 85 beats per minute.
bp 110 over 70.
(to house) he's fine.
(to kenny) you're fine.
after cuddy told you...
oh god.
i don't want to practice plastic surgery.
they agreed to keep their mouths shut.
i love my wife.
i thought you were wrong.
we should all beg off. tell him we failed. no winners no losers.
i'm not.
i don't think she can fire me for not trying to steal her panties.
if i had a plan the first part would be not telling you what the plan was.
yes i have.
or i win by myself and then you try desperately to convince me to spare you.
i i just tripped i'm so sorry.
ahem. [holds up a pair of black panties.] eau de cuddy.
only one way. [throws the panties to cole house catches them with his cane.]
you don't think that i...
you know what else makes your nose bleed and your heart race? cocaine. guy works in a b-list nightclub in atlantic city he's got to be taking regular rolls in the snow.
found some pot.
i'm not sure it really fits the symptoms.
no.
they were never on her. no way those are hers. [finds some rabbits in a cage.] uh-huh. tularaemia.
true. maybe a tick jumped from a rabbit and landed on one of these white fluffy alligators. [kutner turns around and sees the rabbits.] then it jumps onto our patient transfers the bacteria causes pericarditis. explains everything.
bleeding around the heart could mean botched biopsy when cole was looking for the...
those really were her panties?
could be cancer.
so the main mass is somewhere else throws up a clot blocks an artery in his heart causes the arrest. [house watches as 13's hand starts shaking as she tries to put the lid on a pen.]
hey. brought you something from the cafeteria. [cole laughs.] it's not a bribe. this is a bribe. [hands an envelope to cole.]
one million dollars. [cole just stares at him.] five thousand dollars.
house specifically said you can use whatever criteria you want. i've got money you need money.
[hands over the slide.] right now you're earning what i'm earning which is miserable. i know what school your kid's at. i know what it costs. i've seen his picture. he's going to need braces.
how's your stomach? any diarrhoea?
fever is a symptom.
endocarditis.
i'd heard of it before you mentioned it.
[raises his hand] i'll take meningitis.
we're hiding from foreman?
[struggling] he won't let us finish prepping him for the biopsy.
amber it's not the patches. he's got blood clots moving through his body.
i'm trying to be a good colleague.
didn't say good colleague to you.
don't care about the patient.
i care about my wallpaper more than i care about his life.
i care about life. i just don't care about his. he doesn't care. why should i? my time is better spent
average doctor cuts off a patient eighteen seconds into a history because that's all the time he's got. meanwhile six of us are ministering to a guy with a death wish.
not because i'm maximizing my service to mankind.
[calmly] we're gonna spend the next hour looking for a guy who doesn't want to be found.
well no. but uh we were wondering if you'd sent the patient for any additional tests.
you really want this job?
you're a person who likes her privacy working for a man who needs to know everything. you're a person who cares about her patients working for a man that cares about games.
[calling out waving towards the kids] we need a lot of nurses in here.
[points to amber] i followed her.
could be an infection.
uh what lumbar puncture?
definitely no emboli.
it's fuzzy because he was still shaking 'cause he was coming down from the heroin. [looks around] where is everybody else?
what if it's a congenital defect? an anomalous vessel on his heart?
if the vessel wrapped around his trachea?
mra. see if you can get a clear picture of that vessel.
[stammering] what-w-wait-what-what-why?
we have to get a picture.
how can we see it if we don't take a picture?
his respiratory status is through the floor. if there's a vessel and we don't remove it fast best case he's on a ventilator for life.
[to chase] if you don't do the surgery patient will die. you'll have had nothing to do with it. and everyone will know that you had nothing to do with it. and everyone will know that it's because you were pissed off at house for firing you.
[interjects] but that's how it's gonna play out.
70 over 40. he's crashing.
starting dopamine. we're losing him!
[making a cup of tea] she's been to an ortho two neuro's and an immunologist. none of the treatments have had any effect.
forty-five year old single mom. it's an odd presentation of paralysis. any history of drug use?
and we're not her daughter. patient inherited the brca1 mutation from her mom she got a prophylactic double mastectomy ten years ago.
she didn't get reconstructive surgery.
actually i was going to rule it in. paralysis could be paraneoplastic. even the best surgeon can't remove every cell of breast tissue.
but we need to know the truth so we can help her.
as long as she doesn't have to pick up or hold anything. [nodding]
you always this thirsty?
[looks at foreman] dehydration anxiety aggression
but you didn't give her anything. right?
there's nothing wrong with it. [smug] we lied.
you were right. guy slipped her ecstasy.
no. kutner's starting the patient on hemodialysis and thirteen's in the lab trying to figure out what the guy put in the drugs. [leaves the clinic]
[looks suspicious] why are you doing this?
[cuts him off again] ms or a vascular problem fits better. they could affect hands and eyes.
the dye may sting when it enters your bloodstream
okay if i shift you a bit? get you into position.
yeah he is. he thought he'd get information you may not have been telling us by
you'd be surprised how often it works.
you're never even tempted? [glancing to maggie] i mean lies do sometimes smooth things out make life easier.
it means it's not a vascular problem.
fluorescein angiogram was clear. no leaks no lesions definitely not a vascular problem.
no sign of macular degeneration or optic neuritis. her eyes are completely normal.
we haven't found anything abnormal on any test.
until the treatment of your infectious parapheresis takes effect jane can't come back into the room. i've already been inoculated.
don't worry. [hangs up the iv bag] it's a very effective treatment you should be feeling better in a matter of minutes.
don't you think jane deserves a few secrets? some personal space? room to uh make her own mistakes? [taking her wrist to take her pulse for a moment]
[shakes his head and drops her hand] but she's gotta know you're looking over her shoulder. it's gotta stifle <U+0097>
what's wrong?
[calls outside] i need a nurse in here!
her lymph nodes are cutting off her airway. we gotta intubate!
but what does she use it for? try bondage.
we'll need a bronchoalveolar lavage to confirm it.
[skeptical] who sent it to the wrong doctor?
gift could be from wilson.
[moves away from the monitor] lungs are pristine no infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage.
[cautiously] maggie open your eyes.
maggie tested negative for sarcoidosis.
could be splenic sequestration tuberculosis <U+0097>
there's so many ways that could have happened. maybe it was inactive maybe it didn't fully circulate.
caii deficiency is a genetic disorder that scrambles proteins. [draws some blood from her] if the blood test is positive you'll need a bone marrow transplant.
uh slim but not none.
we're gonna need to test jane for a match.
jane is your best bet. procedure's perfectly safe there's no risk.
any surgery has <U+0097>
the testing will hurt a little
if she doesn't do this and you don't make it she's going to spend the rest of her life blaming herself.
donor bank turned up a 49 year old man in cleveland who's a five out of six hla match. first flight out of cleveland leaves <U+0097>
he may not be. maggie didn't let us test her.
pain danger risk of <U+0097>
[looks around] house.
that's an anti-psychotic. she's dying she's not crazy.
actually my parents <U+0097>
what's that?
it's possible. she's on birth control. lots of sex could lead to urinary tract infection which could lead to an infection-laced struvite kidney stone.
[looking through the stuff.] nothing here that could break up a kidney stone.
why? no way you're just doing her a favour.
if our choice is between pissing house off or pissing you off that's not much of a choice.
yes.
but it is ours.
maybe we should just pay for it ourselves and tell him she folded. [they all start to leave]
it didn't work. there's nothing more that we can do.
there's no point in torturing her.
cuddy wasn't supposed to find out.
you know?
we're sorry.
the most likely suspect is a tumour throwing off clots.
deep vein thrombosis plus an existing pfo.
wilson and amber?
low sodium could also be from low food. hasidic jews fast on their wedding day.
suicide's a sin.
[testily] these people are crazy.
i'm not self-hating. i hate religious people who are out of touch with reality. you only marry someone you met three times if they're carrying a little mistake.
[looking through the bucket] cleaners are all organic nothing with carbolic acid. you like how they hook up?
values may give you the big picture but time together gives you the little picture. does she chew her food too loud? will she leave you alone during the final four?
surprises kill. which is why i only commit when there are no more surprises.
do you think this came up on date number two?
where there's rock and roll [holding up the lingerie] and sex... usually there's drugs.
this woman lived in the fast lane till six months ago. maybe we're missing something.
cryoglobulinemia might account for the symptoms.
there's no change in her condition.
look she's nuts but we can't just give her ten ccs of atheism and send her home.
[hesitates a beat] he's right. you don't suddenly choose crazy without suddenly being crazy.
she kiss him or he kiss her?
or we could wait. hope that...
of course we're afraid to...
[no other choice] it's wegener's.
but we'll have the crash cart just in case.
[into microphone] i need you to go faster roz.
little harder.
lupus is chronic but treatable.
i don't think it's likely.
you'd find someone else.
you've had three dates.
twelve years.
we wouldn't still be together if she weren't. i love her as much now as the day...
[standing] okay that's enough roz.
your heart's as strong as a battleship.
she was praying.
i can... see why she'd be attracted... to that life.
i'm not saying i agree. i'm just saying...
they have something we don't have.
right atrium normal no arrhythmia.
[ignores the jibe] right ventricle normal.
i'm not gonna become hasidic. i'm not even gonna become slightly more reform. [sighs] coronary sinus normal.
i haven't had my eyes opened. i just... don't think they're crazy anymore.
she's living proof that sane people can make radical changes. but house he thinks that he can bully...
i'm sorry?
[looks at the monitor] his bundle's normal. pathways are all clean. no arrhythmias.
autonomic nerve disorder could be riley-day syndrome.
i'll set up for a thermoregulatory sweat test.
doesn't matter.
if she wants to tell you when she wakes up...
she's not suicidal. she made a commitment to a new life with her husband and she wants one meaningful experience in that life.
it's who he might be. she's connecting with all the years she's not gonna have.
it's sundown roz.
your sense of time is off because of the medication.
[whispers to yonatan] so you pray scarf down some challah then we can do this?
when i left he was still singing eshet-something.
[quick guess] volvulus of the small intestine could cause bleeding.
actually it means she's not a masochist. she's not following all the rules just the ones that please her.
[calm] i know. she's wrong.
but if there's nothing more...
[vo] but if she thinks god is there for her.
if she lives her life believing that god is there...
or it could be the flu and we should all be back in the er.
what about the other symptoms?
but william's does.
william's cuts iq by 20...
you were wrong.
it's always the same conversation. they tell you you must be mistaken which is why i always run the tests twice and then they blame the other guy. which makes sense if they're innocent but obviously half of them aren't. they don't seem to get that they're busted. scientifically proven.
exactly. that's what you're praying for in that moment. that she cheated too. and then if she doesn't kill you you know that she did you know she betrayed you. and then you realise that that sucks worse.
you got five bucks?
[putting it in his pocket.] niceness just cost you five bucks. being an ass generally turns a profit.
you can stay.
this isn't going to be done.
not as our boss.
fair enough i'll go first. [clears his throat pretends to read off a sheet of paper.] you demonstrate a great air of confidence which is really pissing me off.
how long have you known him? he's using you.
he could care less about the paperwork. he's using you to screw with you. he knows it'll annoy us we'll stand up to you which will force you to confront the fact that even though you think you're our superior you're no different from us. he gave you authority to keep you in your place.
nothing what's true?
hematemesis could indicate...
you don't think it's a symptom?
and syph it can cause hematemesis.
[looks surprised.] how... how could you...
how about serum protein?
kind of assumed he had protein. it's how much protein he has we care about.
[sighs.] you mind if i give you a performance review?
the patient has hepatitis. [kutner thirteen and foreman stare at him.]
we don't know.
but he got worse.
you busy?
negative for sarcoidosis.
roid rage after six hours?
[half laughs.] uh it still could be penicillin allergic reaction.
it's not frying his liver it's frying his syphilis. the penicillin's working the real patient is emerging.
maybe not maybe we just put hitler on ritalin.
what if we lower house's dosage? maybe stabilise him he doesn't get worse he doesn't get better.
if we don't other people die.
people.
how do you know that?
we're idiots.
apparently not. [looks at the screen.] there they are let's see if they... [kutner walks off.] uh what are you doing? we're not done.
[to himself.] i know.
yeah on tv. it's evan greer. he's the main stud on house's soap. frontal cortex looks clean. no tumors.
i was unemployed. i <U+0096>
uh what should we tell him?
perhaps you should go out the back way.
it's just someone of your fame uh i figured fans
he already kidnapped and sedated a guy against his will. makes sense he'd also do something to numb his foot so he couldn't leave.
does sound a little forced. could be stiffening in his tongue which is a symptom of myxedema.
back it up.
uh i know it's more exciting this way but shouldn't we confirm you're right before destroying one of the most important glands in his body?
that's the tracer. we'll have the images in a couple of minutes. you must do okay with women huh?
and?
i doubt it.
i used to be a plastic surgeon. i'd talk about my work as shallow and meaningless. truth is i loved every boob job every tummy tuck. meaning doesn't mean that much.
it's complicated.
it's complicated.
it could be the monitor.
his kidneys are failing.
does it matter? kidney failure on top of the other symptoms points to an autoimmune condition which means that any of his other organs could be next. we've already started dialysis. we need to run anas for autoimmune.
excuse me?
he had a tetanus booster last year. lyme disease?
there's a thousand infections that could have caused this. we can start testing but he'll be dead before the cultures grow.
you okay?
the other eight were taken over to princeton general.
the weirdest thing we've got is a ruptured spleen.
on it. [the three of them start to leave.]
when you remember you can page us.
great idea. i'll build the giant submarine. you get the miniaturization gizmo.
we've only got one symptom to go on. sudden onset paralysis.
you did a full work up on the guy. did you find anything? [house shakes his head.]
sudden paralysis while driving a bus. that's the sort of subtle clue that only a genius would have noticed. [sips coffee. house has a short flashback of someone on the bus drinking coffee. house takes taub's coffee away from him and sniffs it.]
okay. so why are you taking so much vicodin?
house that's four vicodin in forty seconds. at this rate...
house do you think this is going to work or are you just stoned?
it could be thyrotoxic periodic paralysis.
tpp has all the confirmed symptoms. there's no downside to testing.
keep eating.
right heart strain he's still not oxygenating.
it has to be a clot. if he had a bagel stuck in his windpipe i'd have seen it on the echo.
it's a clot house. [they start moving him out.]
autoimmune congenital anomaly blood clotting disorder lead poisoning...
why not cyanide? he's a mess. he needs to sleep.
i need to know if there's anything medically relevant that you couldn't share publicly.
you were obviously drinking last night. maybe you took amber to a bar.
you ended up drunk on a bus together. maybe you met amber in the bar.
you can't really say that if you don't remember.
maybe it was the first time.
if you drank together any chance you did any drugs?
[quietly] i'll run a tox screen.
so was the tox screen.
diet pills cause structural damage to the mitral valve could explain the tachycardia.
she's jaundiced.
and the cardio fits just as well. but there's no way we can tell since we can't take her temperature.
[still ignoring] if we warm her back up we should be able to tell if she's got an infection.
i know you love her and uh you're scared she's gonna die. but just making her colder and colder isn't a cure. it's not dealing with the reality.
putting more ice on her is just delaying the diagnosis.
yeah. how...?
we're about to start a second course of interferon.
she's bruised. why is that significant?
looks like an influenza rash.
it's not fluctuant.
clear. it's not pus.
she didn't even like us.
did we?
[shrugs] what do we say?
still non-responsive.
