oh i i don't
baku.
1827.
six. (she giggles) it's my favorite constant.
oh cool! tudor revival architecture. steeply pitched asymmetrical roof over the entrance. but it doesn't have the half timbering over the facade.
i know. i don't know what happened. being around house he's such a legend he's so intimidating. i'm not like that around ordinary people.(chuckles softly) uh not that you guys are ordinary. (they both stare at her.) it's just that he's so brilliant and you work under him so you're not as imposing. um i'm gonna be quiet.
dugan didn't give you a key?
but our patient didn't. i can't do this i'm sorry.
because the reason not to tell him was that he might hide something. and now that rationale is moot.
how can we ask our patients to trust us if we're not honest with them?
you should probably slow down until you're out of the hospital.
aren't you curious how we came up with this diagnosis?
but how we knew you were drinking apple cider?
that's not true. (she gets joe's full attention) respect matters. honesty and integrity matter.
oh right sorry. (corrects her mistake) you ever wonder why american voter turnout rates are among the lowest in the developed world? (joe looks suddenly paralysed and drops the two phones he was holding in his hands) mr. dugan?
i wasn't trying to rat. i was clearly trying to honor my ethical obligation. portal vein thrombosis could be caused by wilson's disease?
i was brainstorming.
my stupid ideas are what most doctors consider the rules for professional conduct. (to the team) what about a neuroendocrine tumor?
no.
yes but that's different.
because you told him not to?
it's not my beliefs that are the problem. it's my personality. i'm not good at working with other people.
i wasn't looking for encouragement. it's a fact. growing up my whole life really i-i spent a lot of time by myself. and no one in high school wants to hang out with a kid that's three years younger than them. and studying anosov diffeomorphisms determining whether an unattributed landscape is a blakelock or a ryder or i'm actually boring you right now.
i'm not trying to prove anything. i just wanted to be a doctor. it was stupid. nobody can do everything. i was vain to think i could be the exception.
bloody urine actually is a renal problem not a cardiac one.
what about henoch-schoenlein purpura?
we treat with chemotherapy or steroids.
i said chemo.
i agree but there is another option.
another medically accepted option.
we can't withhold information. if we explain both the benefits and the risks of each treatment i'm sure dugan will choose chemo.
the better option is chemotherapy. it's faster and more likely to completely cure you.
please. take some time to think about this.
i was just down by dugan's room. they were ready to give him the wrong medicine. i tried to change the order but i'm not a doctor.
but he wanted steroids not chemo.
i'm gonna tell him what's going on. (leaving)
you think that's gonna stop me from telling him?
by insisting he receives the treatment that he asked for.
he's right i'll just
as i recall you have three actual doctors you haven't fired today.
what? why?
primary sclerosing cholangitis.
gall bladder problems can affect the liver.
shh! (they both focus on the tv screen)
i think he's lying. dugan said
find another sounding board.
i'm not doing this.
you must think i have absolutely no self-esteem. (she stops and turns to house.)
now you want me to talk?
i didn't fail. you fired me. repeatedly.
a german research study showed that 15% of patients with hep c were cured after contracting hep a. of course other studies have shown that up to 85% of doubly-infected patients die very quickly. so in theory if we can find something that mimics hep a
no!
that's an extremely cowardly position.
it's proper protocol for an unconventional treatment. but we shouldn't compromise patient care just to avoid lawsuits.
so what do we do now?
oh right yeah i'm fired.
it's like i'm on a mobius strip.
what do i have to do?
i'm not gonna lie to him.
we're going to inject you with hepatitis a.
i know it seems counter-intuitive but in some people the virus can enhance immune function and clear out the hepatitis c. some.
a fair amount.
there is an 85% chance that this will kill you.
well technically it works infinitely better because arsenic has a 0% chance. this is your only shot. both dr. house and i believe that. he faked a blood test in order to get you approved for this treatment. and then he tried to bribe me into lying to you about the risks. if either of those incidents came to light he would be suspended and probably lose his license.
he's risking his career to give you this chance. he wouldn't do that if there was any other choice.
i did it. and i didn't have to lie.
yes.
you can pretend you wanted me to lie but you didn't. you want the people on your team to challenge you otherwise you'd just be a bully instead of a great doctor. you hired me because i don't compromise my principals.
it's not gonna happen.
yeah his alt level is already beginning to normalize.
uh wait you interviewed me right? for hopkins?
i wanted to say something the first day. i felt really awkward about the whole thing.
what?
(sitting down on a stool beside the bed) he's a doctor.
my father's 19 years older than my mother and they've been happily married for 32 years.
my father was the classics chair at columbia and my mother was his student. his gorgeous student.
maybe it's just a habit. i do that with my cell phone and i live alone.
kaposi's sarcoma?
i asked his permission. the reason we don't ask permission is we're afraid the patient is going to hide something but our patient hasn't been home lives alone. he doesn't have any help and he has no motive to hide anything.
oh doesn't have one.
crucifixion's pretty convincing evidence. lead paint?
true. on the other hand crucified himself.
no computer. no television. no music. what does he do?
only if the person knows they're being prayed for. means there's no objective effect.
i guess worry is good for the waistline.
he does have rhodococcus equi.
why didn't you tell us you were starving yourself?
well you seem to be felling better.
how bad is the pain? on a scale of one to ten ten being the worst.
then why are you smiling?
hears voices thinks he's the son of god. probably schizophrenic.
look. (chase freezes the monitor screen) multiple dense lesions.
how did we miss m.s.?
could be an avm cerebral infarction.
cummerbund.
marburg m.s.?
he'll be dead in two to three days at the most.
you're smiling. does that mean that you're comfortable with your choice? or that you're afraid? because this may be your only hope.
all conviction's equally ridiculous?
he needs to see his daughter.
and tell her he's dying because god doesn't want him to take his medicine.
honesty's not all bad.
um. i'm sorry about your daughter. i never meant to hurt her.
i was surprised she didn't.
but you're going straight to heaven so
so you know you may be wrong. how could you do what you just did?
(moving quickly to catch up to house) everyone else knew?
if you had told me he'd be dead by now. so why do i still want to tell the truth?
this is insane. we can't work like this.
a symptom which we learned about when he choked me. hate to slow us down by acknowledging it.
is no one gonna tell me
[whispers] why we're in the morgue?
no radon no mold no lead in the pipes.
okay that is clearly not related to the case so<U+0097>
so you thought i'd have some insights.
relax. i was crowned homecoming geek. i'm sure you can relate [he looks at her quizzically] because you knew some dorks.
oh is that <U+0097> is that cuddy's mom?
should we consider stds?
[reading the label on a bottle that was in the drawer] what does azarcon mean? i<U+0097>
guess we can pass unethical and skip straight to illegal.
i know i'm a pain but it's impossible for me to work with you if you<U+0097>
so we don't need to do anything.
so this is just a test? [house nods]
[reading the chart] glutethimide! script filled last year. could mimic fixed and dilated without the brain death [house starts to give her a double thumbs up.] except he'll just get better on his own so why would you take this case?
i'll do a blood draw and put glutethimide on the tox screen.
hi dr. cuddy is now a good time to talk?
so um you know how you had us consulting and then stopped having us consult?
um well i think the stopping might have stopped. house put me on this weird case where there's no treatment <U+0097> i think maybe to distract me. uh and they've been acting odd.
because i-i'm worried that he's switching your mother's medications. i checked with the pharmacy <U+0097> dr. chase got prednisone and antibiotics for my coma patient which wouldn't treat him but could treat conditions that cause heart failure.
i agree. fungal endocarditis fits. [cuddy and house are both relieved.] but we still have to tell your mother. [cuddy looks at her disbelievingly.] i don't want to tell her not at all. but the patient is the highest priority.
i've thought about that. lying about me won't work. everybody knows your reputation. [she's nervous but resolute. she punctuates her speech with little head nods as if to reassure herself that she agrees with what she's saying.]
wait
but you told me<U+0097>
you set me up? [long pause as she processes this] why?
dr. kaufman? i need to speak with you and the patient alone.
why?
i keep my job if i stand up to you. i keep it if i don't. i don't buy it.
that actually makes no logical sense.
why? it's a strange medical phenomenon<U+0097>
what about a tutor?
shouldn't you be working for nasa or something?
no i didn't mean i'm sorry i-i-i-i
okay shrug your shoulders and don't let me push them down. so i have to ask uh is there a trick you use? mnemonics? meditation?
sure.
maybe we're missing the obvious. the heart could be behind everything. if it's not pumping effectively the muscles shut down ck elevates coordination suffers. why are you asking about cats?
uh her heart problems started when nadia saw her sister. stress-induced arrhythmia could be caused by long qt syndrome.
she said they'd been estranged for over six years. that's a lot of tension.
you want me to start a fight? no.
you haven't seen each other in a while huh? (to elena) i heard the story about the time you hit nadia with the car. it must have been pretty scary.
(to elena) you-you need to leave right now.
we started her on a beta blocker. it should keep her heart rhythm under control. she'll be fine while we run more tests.
(stopping her) i started the fight. we needed her heart rate to rise so i provoked you.
maybe if i explain to nadia<U+0097>
ammonia.
i think your kidneys are shutting down.
we would have seen a stiff heart on the nuclear study. but autoimmune could account for multiple organ systems and paralysis.
sle.
how's this my fault?
could be pulmonary edema from renal failure.
what do we do?
maybe we could go around them get a relative to donate.
we caused this you know. they were estranged but we made it worse.
'cause it's making her die alone of kidney failure in room 205?
me? i'm not good at that type of thing. someone else should go.
i didn't!
wha<U+0097> (house leaves)
i didn't mean to make you hate her. and now that her kidneys have failed i-i've always been a book and equations person. people are problematic and random and messy. um and with sisters i mean i had a cousin who i was close to and when our menstrual cycles synced it was like gladiator school<U+0097>
yes.
really? it might not fix your relationship. uh probably shouldn't have said that.
and we got the tests back. we were wrong. it's not autoimmune.
no abdominal pain.
what are you trying to find out?
and if it doesn't?
if it's hit her brain that could mean she doesn't have long.
maybe we're missing something from the apartment. some lifestyle thing.
could be vasculitis bronchiectasis inhaled particles.
gets a lot narrower if we factor in his depression.
mood swings can be a symptom of physiological illness.
you don't think<U+0097>
good for you. you could have just assumed he was a drug dealer but instead you took his word for it. [he stares at her quizzically.] it's nice to finally see someone have a little faith in humanity around here.
you think it's cancer?
but the patient doesn't have any other abdominal trauma.
cuddy has a mass on her kidney?
i thought you trusted this kid.
are you okay?
patient lost feeling in his arm while on steroids <U+0097> rules out autoimmune.
she backdated the file? that's very clever.
you just said you didn't know which sample was hers.
i didn't want to kill anybody. i just wanted to torture them slowly in my basement preferably with acid. [the guys look a little disturbed at how her mind works.] you guys ever think about what you might to do house?
fourteen patients with kidney biopsies. i tabulated them against their urinalysis results. six men three diabetics one lcdd one kid two seniors and by default one cuddy. [she waits for the praise that isn't coming. she approaches him with the file.] uh the biopsy was inconclusive. the mass is near the center of her kidney. they couldn't get a readable sample.
the file says they're doing some imaging now give the surgeon a better idea of what he's dealing with.
[enters] ryan's not responding to streptokinase. we don't have very long before the damage becomes irreversible.
i called her. she doesn't know where he is either.
what are you gonna do?
pssh. ha. so you can do the opposite? there are kids all over the country doing dumb potentially violent things but the percentage of them who would actually kill anybody is miniscule.
mmmm while the odds are low the fallout could be huge. tens or even hundreds of lives.
of course over-identification with the subject could skew the calculation towards being extra-protective. or alternatively<U+0097>
[near tears] hate the statistics not the statistician.
we started him on lactulose but at the rate his liver function is declining he'll be dead in a day. should we page house?
house can't do anything for her now. we need him! by his own logic<U+0097>
a.i.p. can cause uremia tank the liver.
oh because fucosidosis was such a brilliant idea?
there are no signs of hyperlipidemia or pancreatitis.
oh! he's talking about an abscess.
if we can find the door.
which just leaves what are you gonna do now?
why would you say that?
cuddy dumped him?
he loves her. what? you can't feel bad for him for five minutes?
wait. i understand the booze and the hookers but why vicodin?
he's used here at work?
what if the hearing loss wasn't caused by the bull? that's just when he noticed it? [they're all listening] inner-ear pathology can affect the equilibrium and cause disorientation making it appear to be a neurological disorder.
we can do calorics and an eng. if he has inner-ear damage it'll affect his balance.
it wasn't
it wasn't that ridiculous of a theory.
uh you mean aforethought.
[giving him a pair of goggles] here you go lane. i'm gonna start slow.
ha. that is amazing.
but if we can't get any images then how do we
wait house should we be more worried about you? are you on vicodin? because if you are you probably shouldn't be ordering procedures.
you really think house isn't using vicodin?
if he's self-prescribing meds that could affect his judgment.
are you being sarcastic?
hmm? what? who? [pause] oh. you think i'm attracted to our patient?
[whispers] he's a macho half-wit.
stop it.
no no no. take out the scope.
not the monitor. look at his eyes.
you want us to cut him open?
house how many prostitutes have you had?
slept with. since you've been here.
that would mean it's some kind of an infection which would mean we'd have to do a spinal tap. but with his recent skull fractures it could be an increased icp. his brain could herniate.
is there anybody you'd like us to call? someone that you'd like to be here with you? maybe a wife or girlfriend?
ah that's too bad. it's nice to have somebody nearby you can talk to who cares.
hmm?
okay fine. i like him. so what?
neither can i. looks clear. nothing is suggesting inflammation. something's wrong.
the airway's blocked. get the trach kit.
o-2 are going back up.
did he defecate?
i think it's his feet. [she looks at his feet which have some sort of rot on them.] oh. oh man. ugh. it's definitely his feet.
symptoms in the head or feet mean the infection would have to be in the heart or the brain.
which is why we're injecting ice water into your abdominal cavity. [she clears her throat.] you'll feel colder than you've ever felt and then you'll be hotter um you'll feel hotter than you've ever felt. [clears throat again] we'll try to be as quick as possible.
shut up.
no it's not. it's mundane and simple. he's obviously a very blessed specimen so from an evolutionary point of view he'd produce healthy offspring so my prefrontal cortex is telling me i should have sex with him.
yes. my rational brain knows he's a hillbilly and an idiot.
just get the damn picture. rib temp is at 158.
this isn't gonna work. we have to stop.
he's smoking. literally you ass.
no getting a good image isn't gonna mean anything if he doesn't have a rib cage.
we think you're having mini blackouts but your brain compensates.
lane that wasn't even close. [to house] that was brilliant.
i think your judgment is compromised.
i was wrong.
hey.
[giggling nervously] as long as you don't get your heart rate too high. you uh probably shouldn't have sex for a while.
want to hang out see your ranch sometime?
[realizes he's stalling] that would probably be inappropriate 'cause i'm your doctor and everything. good luck with everything. [she pauses in the doorway] it
think house is coming in today?
he already jumped off of a hotel balcony. who knows what he'll do next?
23-year-old homeless man brought into the e.r. with burn injuries and
he said his burning flesh smelled like licorice and the e.r. antiseptics like blueberry muffins.
(picking up the file) why?
seriously who is that?
i don't think that two people are supposed
not until we figure out why your sense of smell is off. when was the first time you noticed it?
how many times were you hospitalized?
i'm sorry.
wow. you look different.
(holding the open vial in front of his nose) we need you to tell us what you smell.
peter johnson.
what's wrong?
is anyone else disturbed by this? (taub raises his hand)
danny may have lied about his name but he was telling the truth about the vials. tests confirm they were vitamin a and b12.
but we still need to explain the bleeding in his g.i. tract.
so his symptoms aren't connected.
the bleed could be caused by a g.i. obstruction.
and if we're wrong his intestines could get further distressed while we ignore the g.i. obstruction.
your blood test was clean but your hair showed heroin use.
did you figure out the reason?
chase (chase goes over to masters who is looking at the monitor) look.
we found 13 masses spread across the wall of his colon ranging from two to eight millimeters.
and he's not planning on staying homeless. he's trying to protect his health which is why he's been taking vitamin supplements. he wants to be a doctor.
can you please not do that in front of me?
we think you have pica a craving for nonfood items that's caused by a chemical imbalance
w-what? why?
great friend.
you have to promise us you'll stop.
if we add tunnel vision to the dysosmia we can subtract the bone-induced abdominal bleeding.
he said he never snorted he just shot up. so that wouldn't have affected his sense of smell.
apparently he was clinically dead for several seconds when he o.d.'d. the dark spots could be brain damage from oxygen starvation.
but schizophrenia doesn't explain why his blood pressure skyrocketed and he threw up in the mri.
so we treat him and then what? he becomes just another schizophrenic homeless man wandering the streets we have to help him.
i already gave him a second dose of clozapine. you don't need
how could you possibly know that?
if this is schizophrenia you're gonna need regular care. i found some shelters that have full-time medical staff and also offer
let's have a look.
danny said his left arm felt like it was on fire last night. we assumed it was a schizophrenic delusion but
hey if you let us out we can start testing.
he doesn't know where his mother is and he won't tell us where his father is.
we're his doctors.
you may not care about your son but
we're trying to make your son better.
did you find out his real name?
that's a weird name.
after everything he's been through now we have to tell him hey you have
it's normal. people feel depressed when they get bad news because it's bad news obviously.
why?
no (sitting down on the bed) you don't deserve it.
(calling loudly) i need a crash cart in here!
his heart is dilated and failing.
so if we change his diet
are you feeling better?
basically yeah. it's pretty limiting and it is for the rest of your life. but if you follow the diet and get checked up regularly you should be fine.
you're not a bad person. you made mistakes but we all do. maybe when you get out of here you can go talk to someone a professional.
see you tomorrow danny.
it doesn't matter.
what's going on?
so you called the fbi?
alarm bells for what?
cranial nerves. on old olympus' towering tops a friendly viking grew vines and hops. olfactory. optic. oculomotor.
vagus. accessory. causes of edema: a.l.i.v.e. allergic
differentials for swollen scrotum: t.h.e.a.t.r.e.s. english spelling. torsion hernia
epididymal cyst. s-syphilis.
you don't have to face house every day.
it's kind of like coming to the end of an extreme roller-coaster. even with the terror nausea and whiplash. i'm a little sad that it's over.
oh i'm not quite done. i still have one more lumbar puncture.
i know. i'm gonna get it done.
i've been busy.
oh come on cruz. let me do this. i need it for my log.
i've been busy.
the satisfaction that comes from helping out a classmate? [he gives her a give me a break look.] how about cash?
it's 6:00 am. he won't be in for a few hours. [to cruz whispering] i keep a roll of quarters in the car
he's never had one before.
uh you must be dr thirteen.
uh last day as a student. could be simple dehydration. she told the coast guard she had felt dizzy.
[quietly just to house] actually i'm still deciding. [to the whole team] uh. maybe she had a seizure and that's what caused her collapse.
before i make my decision i still have one more lp i need to get. so i'd like to go to the e.r.
i can take over. [she shows kendall the next picture.]
right. the last time i was on a boat was my freshman mixer in college. i didn't so much mix as hurl.
no i was 13.
yeah i know. weird.
unless you're up for getting on a treadmill. we could stress her body. see if her adrenals respond. it would only take a half an hour.
it's about an lp.
um dr. cuddy can i come by your office later? i'd love to get some advice.
tomorrow? this is this is my last day as a medical student. so i've got this decision to make. probably the biggest decision of my career. which means maybe the biggest decision of my life. although i guess if i get married um house has opened up an internship.
he's always hired me back.
it's certainly toughened me up. you're trying to get me to say good things about him.
thanks dr. cuddy.
you paged me down here and now you're doing my lp?
it's been two minutes. this is your 11th.
i got to find house.
there's a chicken in your office.
you lied about rehab?
of course not. [thirteen leaves. masters looks into the patient bay.] you did an lp? why didn't you page me?
um i after careful consideration i have decided to accept your offer for an internship.
uh you forged the last one. i only did nine lps.
of course.
his chicken's gone.
you knew he had a chicken? how come<U+0097>?
uh why are you putting um chicken footprints on the floor?
ah.
um i um been busy with my patient.
still haven't gotten my tenth lp.
first you act like it's the equivalent of volunteering to be waterboarded and now you're supporting it?
it indicates freedom from disease. we're biologically programmed to<U+0097>
it's peculiar?
i think it's an australorp. i'm gonna go check on my patient.
can someone please explain to me what house and wilson are doing with those chickens?
and why are they doing this?
really? you want me to stay?
if i don't play by house's rules he won't let me in.
i'd have to lie to him which is still lying.
means i need another lp.
sounds like you've had a few of these. suppose that comes with the territory.
why are you lying about rehab?
couldn't you just say that? should be enough for foreman and the others.
do you think there's room for someone who does things differently?
i handed in my log.
yes. and i still broke a rule.
why is it so wrong that i don't like to cheat?
you want me to be like you. it's not going to happen.
you think i'm exceptional?
i can do my job without compromising.
surgery. anatomy. branches off the subclavian artery. vitamin c and d. v-i-t. vitamin. v: vertebral. i: internal carotid <U+0097> internal thoracic. internal thoracic. t: thyrocervical. c: costocervical.
martha m. masters. that's me. i'm gonna be a surgeon.
push calcium chloride. it will supercharge the platelets and increase the clotting.
um k.p. is that patient kendall pearson? i thought she was discharged.
but it's my first day.
what happened? last i heard you were going home.
she must've had a hypertensive crisis caused by a neural overstimulation in her kidneys. so they're cutting the nerves. it's like cutting the gas line to an engine.
it is. you should still be on pace for a launch in 36 hours.
nothing you can do for her here.
she's different. so you have to be different. i'll make sure she's okay.
[gasps] bifurcate innominate artery. i've never seen one of those before.
can someone take the retractors from me?
i have to use the bathroom.
i'm not.
i'm gonna have an accident.
what's wrong?
i took a break. i told them i had to pee.
i care about the patient.
i told her dad i was gonna take care of her.
but she had a high ck. wegener's wouldn't explain the<U+0097>
yes. but the calcified pineal could be sarcoidosis.
i'm not back! i'll just be staying for this case.
i ran into dr. house. he requested a surgical consult for his patient.
something about this case he needed a little more help.
i didn't take <U+0097> oh. [snorts] that's funny. i'm gonna stay and run a few extra tests on house's patient. this one lab value doesn't make sense to me.
mm. just this one case. i'm not staying.
[sitting upright] chickens!
you ever get sick from poultry?
i think that can was chock-full of a bacteria called salmonella enteritis. likes to hang out in the bones. let me know if any of this is tender or painful.
well if i'm right that means all you'll need are antibiotics. and you'll be uh well shipshape. sorry. couldn't resist. did you always know that sailing was it for you? that it was the right thing?
but now that you're so into it
that is quite the endorsement.
thanks. starting on the soft tissue windows.
that's the plan.
i just said i was.
would it be so terrible? you chose house over surgery.
were those people right?
doesn't look like an infection.
you have lymphoid sarcoma. a cancer in the bone in your arm.
it's a treatable cancer. but part of that treatment involves amputating your arm. i'm sorry.
um. we can do chemo and radiation after the amputation.
we know it's cancer. we ran the biopsy three times.
postponing the surgery could increase the likelihood that the cancer will spread.
she'll be risking her life.
you're considering this? your daughter's condition<U+0097>
she's a minor. you sign the consent form we can do the surgery. amputation can be an emo<U+0097>
one parent's signature is enough. [long pause while she waits for him to agree] she needs you to be a parent.
i'm asking you to save your family.
i'm stuck.
no one will stop kendall's sail. you need to step in.
she could die.
you are constantly railing against hypocrisy forcing people to face the truth. this time nothing?
and made a decision that will in all likelihood kill their daughter.
i don't want her to die.
i can't.
dr. wilson. um i'd like to get your advice about a cancer patient.
are you okay?
oh. um so what would you do?
and if she kept saying no?
i know there's a chicken under there.
so that's all you'd do?
is it? [wilson grabs for his back again. there's a loud chicken cluck. wilson reaches under his desk pulls out a red chicken and puts it on his desk.] isn't that house's chicken?
so call it off.
so she did the right thing?
you need to do this surgery.
now.
it's a stupid record.
so it's about being better than everyone else?
[unhappy but nodding] medicine's gonna burn a little bit. [she hangs the iv]
the cancer is causing her heart to slow down. we have to get her to the o.r. and treat her. this is what i was worried about. if this had happened at sea she would be dead.
we need you to sign the consent form. authorize us to amputate her arm.
don't need it. push calcium chloride. it'll fix the heart block. bradycardia was me.
parents signed the consent form. amputate her arm.
you had a cardiac episode that required us to bring you into the o.r. that crisis resolved but<U+0097>
during surgery we found cancer in a lymph node in your neck.
cancer was already spreading. it had to be done.
if we had waited until after the sail was over you would have died.
i did things no doctor in their right mind would do.
i manipulated lied forged stole.
i broke the rules because i believed i was right.
then why don't i feel good or satisfied? instead i just feel like throwing up.
i didn't do it to be happy. i just thought i would be.
house. i can't do it. i'm leaving.
i don't know what i'm going to do. but i do know i don't want to be here.
i'm fine with that.
ooop.
